Venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains a leading cause of direct maternal deaths in the developed countries. The incidence of VTE has increased significantly during the past two decades. The absolute risk of VTE is estimated 0.6-2.2 per 1000 deliveries. Compared with age-matched non-pregnant women, the daily risk of VTE is increased 7- to 10-fold for antepartum VTE, but it is 15- to 35-fold for postpartum VTE. The incidence of pulmonary embolism (PE) during the first 6 weeks postpartum is nearly 15-fold higher compared to the incidence in pregnancy, and remains significantly increased up to 12 weeks postpartum. The case fatality rate of PE ranges from 2.2 to 6.6%.The basis of VTE prevention is careful assessment of individual risk factors of VTE and proper risk stratification.It is necessary to differentiate preexisting maternal from transient pregnancy-specific risk factors. Women with previous VTE or hereditary high-risk thrombophilias or with the antiphospholipid syndrome have the highest risk for VTE in pregnancy and the puerperium.Other most important pregnancy-specific risk factors in the antenatal period are severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, hyperemesis, major surgery, severe comorbidities (e.g., systemic lupus erythematodes), hospitalization in women with a body mass index > 25 kg/m(2), and inflammatory bowel diseases.Heart diseases, stillbirth, systemic infections, severe postpartum hemorrhage in combination with blood product replacement and/or surgery and emergency caesarean section are predominant risk factors in the postpartum period.Recommendations for risk stratification vary among current international guidelines. According to the SOGC (Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada) 2014, pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis is recommended if the estimated absolute risk of one or multiple risk factors is greater than 1%.The ACCP (American College of Chest Physicians) Guideline 2012 presents specific recommendations only for post-caesarean risk-factor-based prophylaxis.The recent RCOG (Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists) Guideline No. 37a 2015 recommends risk stratification for VTE prophylaxis on the basis of a special risk scoring system weighting individual risk factors between one point (low risk) to a maximum of 4 points (very high risk).A check list of important risk factors and a management plan for thromboprophylaxis based on current guidelines should be readily available in each obstetric unit.

Studies on inflammatory disorders elucidated the pivotal role of the CX3CL1/CX3CR1 axis with respect to the pathophysiology and diseases progression. Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-induced myocarditis is associated with severe cardiac inflammation, which may progress to heart failure. We therefore investigated the influence of CX3CR1 ablation in the model of acute myocarditis, which was induced by inoculation with 5x105 plaque forming units of CVB3 (Nancy strain) in either CX3CR1-/- or C57BL6/j (WT) mice. Seven days after infection, myocardial inflammation, remodeling, and titin expression and phosphorylation were examined by immunohistochemistry, real-time PCR and Pro-Q diamond stain. Cardiac function was assessed by tip catheter. Compared to WT CVB3 mice, CX3CR1-/- CVB3 mice exhibited enhanced left ventricular expression of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, which was associated with an increase of immune cell infiltration/presence. This shift towards a pro-inflammatory immune response further resulted in increased cardiac fibrosis and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, which was reflected by an impaired cardiac function in CX3CR1-/- CVB3 compared to WT CVB3 mice. These findings demonstrate a cardioprotective role of CX3CR1 in CVB3-infected mice and indicate the relevance of the CX3CL1/CX3CR1 system in CVB3-induced myocarditis.

Parquetina nigrescens is commonly used to treat diseases in humans and animals in developing countries, including Nigeria. This study evaluates the effects of its polyphenol-rich fraction (prf) on dichlorvos-induced cardio- and renal toxicity. There were several factors assessed during this study, including cardiac and renal markers, serum myeloperoxidase and xanthine oxidase, and electrocardiograph (ECG) changes. The changes in electrocardiograph (ECG) were recorded. Immunohistochemistry of cardiac and renal p38 and nitrotyrosine was determined. Dichlorvos exposure caused a significant decrease in L-glutathione (reduced glutathione) and other antioxidant enzymes with increases in malondialdehyde, myeloperoxidase, advanced oxidation protein products, and protein carbonyl levels. It also brought about alterations in microanatomy of the heart and kidneys accompanied by increases in serum creatinine and urea levels. Exposure to dichlorvos induced prolonged QRS interval and shortened QT durations in rats. Immunohistochemistry revealed lower expressions of cardiac nitrotyrosine and renal p38 (mitogen-activated protein kinase; MAPK) in rats treated with prf of P. nigrescens. Combining all, prf of P. nigrescens demonstrated antioxidant as well as protective properties in the heart and kidneys of rats exposed to dichlorvos. It ameliorated dichlorvos-induced cardio- and nephrotoxicity giving credence to its use in ethnomedicine.

Understanding the factors associated with early readmissions following atrial flutter (AFL) ablation is critical to reduce the cost and improving the quality of life in AFL patients.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) burden and duration are predictors of thromboembolic events. The random nature of these measures may affect clinical decision making. The objective of this study was to determine temporal changes in AF burden as detected by continuous monitoring.

We summarize the 2016 update of the 2004 Agency of Healthcare Research and Quality's evidence review of omega-3 fatty acids and cardiovascular disease (CVD). The overall findings for the effects of marine oil supplements on intermediate CVD outcomes remain largely unchanged. There is high strength of evidence, based on numerous trials, of no significant effects of marine oils on systolic or diastolic blood pressures, but there are small, yet statistically significant increases in high density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations. The clinical significance of these small changes, particularly in combination, is unclear. The strongest effect of marine oils is on triglyceride concentrations. Across studies, this effect was dose-dependent and related to studies' mean baseline triglyceride concentration. In observational studies, there is low strength of evidence that increased marine oil intake lowers ischemic stroke risk. Among randomized controlled trials and observational studies, there is evidence of variable strength of no association with increased marine oil intake and lower CVD event risk. Evidence regarding alpha-linolenic acid intake is sparser. There is moderate strength of evidence of no effect on blood pressure or lipoprotein concentrations and low strength of evidence of no association with coronary heart disease, atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure.

We examined the associations between blood pressure indices (SBP, DBP, mean arterial pressure and pulse pressure) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality among persons with or without diabetes mellitus (NON-DM) in a multiethnic cohort.

Electrical cardiometry and heart ultrasound might allow hemodynamic evaluation during transportation of critically ill patients. Our aims were 1) to test feasibility of stroke volume monitoring using electrical cardiometry or ultrasound during transportation and 2) to investigate if transportation impacts on electrical cardiometry and ultrasound reliability.

The current article addresses crucial issues in identifying risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in people living with HIV in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). These issues are in need of urgent attention to advance our knowledge and inform actions to mitigate CVD in this population. We address CVDs in adults living with HIV as well as the unique aspects pertaining to children living with HIV (CLHIV), a group sorely under-represented in this field.

The purpose of this review is to summarize and synthesize recent data on the risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in HIV-infected individuals.

Few data are available about efficacy and durability of simplification from multi-tablet antiretroviral regimens to co-formulated efavirenz(EFV)/emtricitabine(FTC)/tenofovir(TDF) versus rilpivirine(RPV)/emtricitabine/tenofovir in virologically-suppressed HIV-1-infected patients.

Current classifications of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) severity are complex and do not grade levels of obstruction. Obstruction is a simpler construct and independent of ethnicity. We constructed an index of obstruction severity based on the FEV1/FVC ratio, with cut-points dividing the Burden of Obstructive Lung Disease (BOLD) study population into four similarly sized strata to those created by the GOLD criteria that uses FEV1. We measured the agreement between classifications and the validity of the FEV1-based classification in identifying the level of obstruction as defined by the new groupings. We compared the strengths of association of each classification with quality of life (QoL), MRC dyspnoea score and the self-reported exacerbation rate. Agreement between classifications was only fair. FEV1-based criteria for moderate COPD identified only 79% of those with moderate obstruction and misclassified half of the participants with mild obstruction as having more severe COPD. Both scales were equally strongly associated with QoL, exertional dyspnoea and respiratory exacerbations. Severity assessed using the FEV1/FVC ratio is only in moderate agreement with the severity assessed using FEV1 but is equally strongly associated with other outcomes. Severity assessed using the FEV1/FVC ratio is likely to be independent of ethnicity.

The aim of this study is examining the effects of multiple sets of high-velocity resistance exercise (HVRE) on cardiovascular responses. Fifteen healthy adult men participated in two experimental sessions: one comprised three sets of resistance exercise performed against high-intensity resistance exercise (HIRE) at low velocity and the other three sets of HVRE performed against reduced load at high velocity. Blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV) and cardiac output (CO) during both sessions were evaluated using impedance electrocardiography. The increases in BP, HR and CO were significantly lowered during HVRE compared with HIRE (p < 0.05). In contrast, there was no significant difference in SV between sessions (p > 0.05). This study suggested that the increases in BP and CO during HVRE were lower than those during HIRE although HVRE required performing fast movement. HVRE might be applied to patients for whom HIRE is contraindicated because of cardiovascular diseases.

Worldwide, cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remains as the main cause of mortality. Observational studies supports an association between intake of tomato products or lycopene with a reduced CVDs risk. Our aim was to undertake a systematic review and meta-analysis of the evidence on the topic.

Advanced mechanical circulatory support is increasingly being used with more sophisticated devices that can deliver pulsatile rather than continuous flow. These devices are more portable as well, allowing patients to await cardiac transplantation in an outpatient setting. It is known that patients with renal failure are at increased risk for developing worsening acute kidney injury during implantation of a ventricular assist device (VAD) or more advanced modalities like a total artificial heart (TAH). Dealing with patients who have an implanted TAH who develop renal failure has been a challenge with the majority of such patients having to await a combined cardiac and renal transplant prior to transition to outpatient care. Protocols do exist for VAD implanted patients to be transitioned to outpatient dialysis care, but there are no reported cases of TAH patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) being successfully transitioned to outpatient dialysis care. In this report, we identify a patient with a TAH and ESRD transitioned successfully to outpatient hemodialysis and maintained for more than 2 years, though he did not survive to transplant. It is hoped that this report will raise awareness of this possibility, and assist in the development of protocols for similar patients to be successfully transitioned to outpatient dialysis care.

Obesity is a metabolic syndrome leading to several health problems such as hypertension, heart attack, type II diabetes, and even cancer. Carbonic anhydrase VA (CAVA) is a mitochondrial enzyme which is directly associated with the glucose homeostasis and considered as a promising target for obesity and other associated diseases in humans. So far, numerous inhibitors have been designed to inhibit the catalytic activity of CAVA with an assumption for its possible therapeutic uses against type II diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Among these, sulphonamide inhibitors and various non-classical inhibitors are extensively used. The focus of this review is to understand the mechanism and role CAVA in glucose homeostasis to ascertain as a potential drug target of obesity. We have further highlighted different types of inhibitors and their mode of binding and possible consequences with an aim to investigate possible therapeutic used for the treatment of obesity and associated diseases. Along with classical inhibitors, various non-classical inhibitors have proved to be potential inhibitors of CAV which may be employed to combat obesity. Certain phytochemicals are utilized as therapeutic molecules to fight obesity. These phytochemicals have been discussed in detail here.

Cardiac rehabilitation for ischaemic heart disease effectively reduces cardiovascular readmission rate and mortality. Current uptake rates however, remain low. This study assesses the social and economic impact of increasing centre-based cardiac rehabilitation uptake and the additional value of cardiac telerehabilitation using cost-benefit analysis (CBA) in Belgium.

Calorie restriction (CR) increases average and maximum lifespan and exhibits an apparent beneficial impact on age-related diseases. Several studies have shown that CR initiated either in middle or old age could improve ischemic tolerance and rejuvenate the aging heart; however, the data are not uniform when initiated in young. The accurate time to initiate CR providing maximum benefits for cardiac remodeling and function during aging remains unclear. Thus, whether a similar degree of CR initiated in mice of different ages could exert a similar effect on myocardial protection was investigated in this study. C57BL/6 mice were subjected to a calorically restricted diet (40% less than the ad libitum diet) for 3 months initiated in 3, 12, and 19 months. It was found that CR significantly reversed the aging phenotypes of middle-aged and old mice including cardiac remodeling (cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and cardiac fibrosis), inflammation, mitochondrial damage, telomere shortening, as well as senescence-associated markers but accelerated in young mice. Furthermore, whole-genome microarray demonstrated that the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-Forkhead box subgroup 'O' (FOXO) pathway might be a major contributor to contrasting regulation by CR initiated in different ages; thus, increased autophagy was seen in middle-aged and old mice but decreased in young mice. Together, the findings demonstrated promising myocardial protection by 40% CR should be initiated in middle or old age that may have vital implications for the practical nutritional regimen.

Recent studies have shown favorable outcomes with everolimus-eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Data on the use of BVS in saphenous vein graft disease (SVG) is currently lacking.

This study evaluated the incidence and risk factors for intensive care and respiratory support in infant bronchiolitis.

Sympathetic nervous system plays a pivotal role in essential hypertension and in the development of left ventricular hypertrophy. Moreover, cardiac sympathetic dys-regulation has been demonstrated as a key con-causal factor in the genesis and progression of pathologic conditions such as congestive heart failure and ischemic heart disease to which hypertension predisposes as a risk factor. However, despite its fundamental role in cardiac pathophysiology, the evaluation of cardiac sympathetic nervous system has never gained a wide clinical application, remaining mostly a research tool. In this context, nuclear imaging techniques are the only modalities to allow the direct evaluation of cardiac sympathetic nervous integrity, giving the chance to obtain objective measures of the sympathetic tone. This review, while summarizing the general profile of currently available tests for autonomic evaluation, focuses on (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine nuclear imaging as a preferential tool to assess cardiac sympathetic status. Specifically, the review discusses the available evidence on cardiac (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy in arterial hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy and its diagnostic and prognostic potential in congestive heart failure and ischemic heart disease.

Although the pathophysiological significance of resistant hypertension in post-myocardial infarction (MI) patients is established, mechanisms by which increased afterload in that setting worsens outcome are unclear. With regards to sudden cardiac death, whether increased afterload alters the electrophysiological substrate following MI is unknown. We established a new large animal model of chronic post-MI remodeling with increased afterload which exhibits widespread deposition of fibrosis in remote areas from the anterior MI, mimicking the disease phenotype of patients with advanced ischemic heart disease. We identified the mode-of-initiation and mechanism of arrhythmias which were consistently unmasked by hypokalemia in this clinically-relevant model.

Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) is a rare form of systemic histiocytosis, typically presenting with striking osseous involvement characterized by bilateral osteosclerosis and involvement of organs such as the lung, pituitary gland, heart, and brain. Liver involvement with ECD is extremely uncommon. We report a 56-year-old woman presenting with newly diagnosed cirrhosis and signs concerning for intra-abdominal malignancy, including omental caking and peritoneal thickening. Liver biopsy demonstrated xanthogranulomatous infiltration from ECD. The patient showed initial improvement with interferon therapy, but she developed severe depression, which led to the discontinuation of the treatment. Shortly afterward, she died from progressive liver dysfunction resulting in hepatorenal syndrome.

In the tissue engineering (TE) paradigm, engineering and life sciences tools are combined to develop bioartificial substitutes for organs and tissues, which can in turn be applied in regenerative medicine, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and basic research to elucidate fundamental aspects of cell functions in vivo or to identify mechanisms involved in aging processes and disease onset and progression. The complex three-dimensional (3D) microenvironment in which cells are organized in vivo allows the interaction between different cell types and between cells and the extracellular matrix, the composition of which varies as a function of the tissue, the degree of maturation, and health conditions. In this context, 3D in vitro models can more realistically reproduce a tissue or organ than two-dimensional (2D) models. Moreover, they can overcome the limitations of animal models and reduce the need for in vivo tests, according to the "3Rs" guiding principles for a more ethical research. The design of 3D engineered tissue models is currently in its development stage, showing high potential in overcoming the limitations of already available models. However, many issues are still opened, concerning the identification of the optimal scaffold-forming materials, cell source and biofabrication technology, and the best cell culture conditions (biochemical and physical cues) to finely replicate the native tissue and the surrounding environment. In the near future, 3D tissue-engineered models are expected to become useful tools in the preliminary testing and screening of drugs and therapies and in the investigation of the molecular mechanisms underpinning disease onset and progression. In this review, the application of TE principles to the design of in vitro 3D models will be surveyed, with a focus on the strengths and weaknesses of this emerging approach. In addition, a brief overview on the development of in vitro models of healthy and pathological bone, heart, pancreas, and liver will be presented.

Guizhi Gancao Decoction (GGD), a traditional Chinese medical recipe, has been widely used in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases in China for centuries. The present study was carried out to determine whether GGD exerts direct protective effects against pressure overload-induced heart failure. Moreover, we investigated whether GGD affects tubulin expression and posttranslational modifications. We demonstrated that GGD ameliorated TAC caused cardiac hypertrophy by gravimetric and echocardiography analysis in C57BL/6 mice. We found that GGD abrogated TAC-induced myocardium fibrosis by Masson's staining and collagen volume fraction (CVF) analysis. By using pressure-volume hemodynamic measurements, we found that GGD prevented TAC-induced cardiac systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Immunoblotting and immunofluorescent analysis revealed that GGD abrogated TAC-induced detyrosination and acetylation abnormalities on microtubules. Our present study demonstrated potential therapeutic effects of GGD against pressure overload-induced heart failure.

Psychological characteristics of patients, depression, stress and anxiety are recognized as important confounding risk factors for ischemic heart disease. However, the impact of psychological characteristics on coronary ischemia and vice versa remain poorly understood.

Treating acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has an impact on improving long-term outcome. However, patients with other comorbidities are challenging, and are considered as a high-risk population.

Development of unconventional technologies for wireless collection, storage and analysis of quantitative, clinically relevant information on physiological status is of growing interest. Soft, biocompatible systems are widely regarded as important because they facilitate mounting on external (e.g. skin) and internal (e.g. heart, brain) surfaces of the body. Ultra-miniaturized, lightweight and battery-free devices have the potential to establish complementary options in bio-integration, where chronic interfaces (i.e. months) are possible on hard surfaces such as the fingernails and the teeth, with negligible risk for irritation or discomfort. Here we report materials and device concepts for flexible platforms that incorporate advanced optoelectronic functionality for applications in wireless capture and transmission of photoplethysmograms, including quantitative information on blood oxygenation, heart rate and heart rate variability. Specifically, reflectance pulse oximetry in conjunction with near-field communication (NFC) capabilities enables operation in thin, miniaturized flexible devices. Studies of the material aspects associated with the body interface, together with investigations of the radio frequency characteristics, the optoelectronic data acquisition approaches and the analysis methods capture all of the relevant engineering considerations. Demonstrations of operation on various locations of the body and quantitative comparisons to clinical gold standards establish the versatility and the measurement accuracy of these systems, respectively.

Spatiotemporal pattern formation governs dynamics and functions in various biological systems. In the heart, excitable waves can form complex oscillatory and chaotic patterns even at an abnormally higher frequency than normal heart beats, which increase the risk of fatal heart conditions by inhibiting normal blood circulation. Previous studies suggested that line defects (nodal lines) play a critical role in stabilizing those undesirable patterns. However, it remains unknown if the line defects are static or dynamically changing structures in heart tissue. Through in vitro experiments of heart tissue observation, we reveal the spatiotemporal dynamics of line defects in rotating spiral waves. We combined a novel signaling over-sampling technique with a multi-dimensional Fourier analysis, showing that line defects can translate, merge, collapse and form stable singularities with even and odd parity while maintaining a stable oscillation of the spiral wave in the tissue. These findings provide insights into a broad class of complex periodic systems, with particular impact to the control and understanding of heart diseases.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as promising biomarkers of disease. Their potential use in clinical practice requires standardized protocols with very low miRNA concentrations, particularly in plasma samples. Here we tested the most appropriate method for miRNA quantification and validated the performance of a hybridization platform using lower amounts of starting RNA. miRNAs isolated from human plasma and from a reference sample were quantified using four platforms and profiled with hybridization arrays and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Our results indicate that the Infinite(®) 200 PRO Nanoquant and Nanodrop 2000 spectrophotometers magnified the miRNA concentration by detecting contaminants, proteins, and other forms of RNA. The Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer PicoChip and SmallChip gave valuable information on RNA profile but were not a reliable quantification method for plasma samples. The Qubit(®) 2.0 Fluorometer provided the most accurate quantification of miRNA content, although RNA-seq confirmed that only ~58% of small RNAs in plasma are true miRNAs. On the other hand, reducing the starting RNA to 70% of the recommended amount for miRNA profiling with arrays yielded results comparable to those obtained with the full amount, whereas a 50% reduction did not. These findings provide important clues for miRNA determination in human plasma samples.

The incidence of atrial fibrillation is high in ESRD, but limited data are available on the incidence of atrial fibrillation across a broad range of kidney function. Thus, we examined the association of eGFR and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio with risk of incident atrial fibrillation.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are prevalent in the US and many forms of CVDs primarily affect the mechanical aspects of heart function. Wearable technologies for monitoring the mechanical health of the heart and vasculature could enable proactive management of CVDs through titration of care based on physiological status, as well as preventative wellness monitoring to help promote lifestyle choices that reduce the overall risk of developing CVDs. Additionally, such wearable technologies could be used to optimize human performance in austere environments. This review describes our progress in developing wearable ballistocardiogram (BCG) and seismocardiogram (SCG) based systems for monitoring relative changes in cardiac output, contractility, and blood pressure. Our systems use miniature, low noise accelerometers to measure the movements of the body in response to the heartbeat, and novel machine learning algorithms to provide robustness against motion artifacts and sensor misplacement. Moreover, we mathematically related wearable BCG signals - representing local, cardiogenic movements of a point on the body - to better-understood whole-body BCG signals, and thereby improved estimation of key health parameters. We validated these systems using experiments with healthy subjects, studies in patients with heart failure, and measurements in austere environments such as water immersion. The systems can be used in future work as a tool for clinicians and physiologists to measure the mechanical aspects of cardiovascular function outside of clinical settings, and to thereby titrate care for patients with CVDs, provide preventative screening, and optimize performance in austere environments by providing real-time in-depth information regarding performance and risk.

Coronary angiography is regularly performed in patients with worsening signs and/or symptoms of heart failure (HF). However, little is known on the determinants, findings and associated clinical outcomes of coronary angiography performed in patients with worsening HF.

Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) following prenatal hypoxia exposure leads to a higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) in later life. Our aim was to evaluate cardiac susceptibility and its pathophysiological mechanisms following acute myocardial infarction (MI) in adult rat offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia. Male and female rat offspring, which experienced normoxia (21% O2) or hypoxia (11% O2) in utero underwent sham or MI surgery at 12 weeks of age. Echocardiographic data revealed that both sexes had systolic dysfunction following MI surgery, independent of prenatal hypoxia. Male offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia, however, had left ventricular dilatation, global dysfunction, and signs of diastolic dysfunction following MI surgery as evident by increased left ventricular internal diameter (LVID) during diastole (MI effect, P<0.01), Tei index (MI effect, P<0.001), and E/E' ratio (prenatal hypoxia or MI effect, P<0.01). In contrast, diastolic dysfunction in female offspring was not as evident. Cardiac superoxide levels increased only in prenatal hypoxia exposed male offspring. Cardiac sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase2a (SERCA2a) levels, a marker of cardiac injury and dysfunction, decreased in both male and female MI groups independent of prenatal hypoxia. Prenatal hypoxia increased cardiac ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2) protein levels, while MI reduced RYR2 in only male offspring. In conclusion, male offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia had an increased susceptibility to ischemic myocardial injury involving cardiac phenotypes similar to heart failure involving diastolic dysfunction in adult life compared with both offspring from healthy pregnancies and their female counterparts.

Left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC) is a genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous disease and, although increasingly recognized in clinical practice, there is a lack of widely accepted diagnostic criteria. We sought to identify novel genetic causes of LVNC and describe genotype-phenotype correlations.

Walnuts are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, phytochemicals and antioxidants making them unique compared to other foods. Consuming walnuts has been associated with health benefits including a reduced risk of heart disease and cancer. Dysbiosis of the gut microbiome has been linked to several chronic diseases. One potential mechanism by which walnuts may exert their health benefit is through modifying the gut microbiome. This study identified the changes in the gut microbial communities that occur following the inclusion of walnuts in the diet. Male Fischer 344 rats (n=20) were randomly assigned to one of two diets for as long as 10 weeks: (1) walnut (W), and (2) replacement (R) in which the fat, fiber, and protein in walnuts were matched with corn oil, protein casein, and a cellulose fiber source. Intestinal samples were collected from the descending colon, the DNA isolated, and the V3-V4 hypervariable region of 16S rRNA gene deep sequenced on an Illumina MiSeq for characterization of the gut microbiota. Body weight and food intake did not differ significantly between the two diet groups. The diet groups had distinct microbial communities with animals consuming walnuts displaying significantly greater species diversity. Walnuts increased the abundance of Firmicutes and reduced the abundance of Bacteriodetes. Walnuts enriched the microbiota for probiotic-type bacteria including Lactobacillus, Ruminococcaceae, and Roseburia while significantly reducing Bacteroides and Anaerotruncus. The class Alphaproteobacteria was also reduced. Walnut consumption altered the gut microbial community suggesting a new mechanism by which walnuts may confer their beneficial health effects.

The health and survival of managed honey bee (Apis mellifera) colonies are affected by multiple factors, one of the most important being the interaction between viral pathogens and infestations of the ectoparasitic mite Varroa destructor. Currently, the only effective strategy available for mitigating the impact of viral infections is the chemical control of mite populations. Unfortunately, the use of in-hive acaricides comes at a price, as they can produce sublethal effects that are difficult to quantify, but may ultimately be as damaging as the mites they are used to treat. The goal of this study was to investigate the physiological and immunological effects of the formamidine acaricide amitraz and its primary metabolite in honey bees. Using flock house virus as a model for viral infection, this study found that exposure to a formamidine acaricide may have a negative impact on the ability of honey bees to tolerate viral infection. Furthermore, this work has demonstrated that amitraz and its metabolite significantly alter honey bee cardiac function, most likely through interaction with octopamine receptors. The results suggest a potential drawback to the in-hive use of amitraz and raise intriguing questions about the relationship between insect cardiac function and disease tolerance.

Ceramide accumulation in blood vessels has been attributed to vascular dysfunction in progressive vascular complications in metabolic diseases. The present study showed that ceramide pretreatment promoted PE-induced vasoconstriction in rat endothelium-denuded vascular rings in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress inhibitors, 4-PBA and TUDCA, COX-2 inhibitors, Celecoxib and NS398, as well as PGE2 receptor antagonist AH-6809 attenuated ceramide-promoted vascular hyperreactivity. Ceramide promoted the transcriptional and translational expression of COX-2 and BiP in VSMCs, which were blocked by the ER stress inhibitors, 4-PBA and TUDCA. These findings show that ceramide enhances PE-induced vascular smooth muscle constriction by mediation of the ER stress/COX-2/PGE2 pathway. Therapeutic strategies targeted to reducing ER stress and COX-2 activation might be beneficial in attenuating vascular complications.

In this study we investigated modern, non-utilization rates of potential cardiac donors with left ventricular dysfunction (LVD) to clarify this phenomenon's magnitude and the impact of recent studies suggesting these organs can be safely transplanted.

The high mortality rate associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) has driven intensive research in cardiac imaging and image analysis. The advent of computed tomography angiography (CTA) has turned non-invasive diagnosis of cardiovascular anomalies into reality as calcified coronary plaques can be easily identified due to their high intensity values. However, the detection of non-calcified plaques in CTA is still a challenging problem because of lower intensity values, which are often similar to the nearby blood and muscle tissues. In this work, we propose the use of mean radial profiles for the detection of non-calcified plaques in CTA imagery.

The Epidemiology and Natural History of Asthma: Outcomes and Treatment Regimens (TENOR I) study demonstrated high morbidity in patients with severe/difficult-to-treat asthma, despite standard-of-care treatment.

Delivering an adequate and homogenous dose to a large volume of recurrent cutaneous disease can be challenging even with modern techniques. Here, the authors describe a 3-isocenter hybrid electron and rapid arc photon radiation treatment plan to provide optimal tumor coverage to an extensive recurrence of inflammatory breast carcinoma. This approach allowed for homogeneous treatment of a large volume while effectively modulating dose to previously irradiated tissue and minimizing dose to the underlying heart, lungs and brachial plexus.

Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD), also known as sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy, is a nonmalignant disease of unknown etiology. It may present as bilateral, massive, painless cervical lymphadenopathy; however, one third of the cases have extranodal involvement. Extranodal sites include soft tissue, skin, upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, and central nervous system, with head and neck being the most common. Here we report a rare case of intracardiac RDD in a 46-year-old, African-American female who presented with worsening shortness of breath and fatigue for 7 weeks. Comprehensive physical examination was within normal limits; the patient had no lymphadenopathy. Echocardiogram revealed a large mass in the left atrium extending into the mitral valve. The mass was resected under the pretext of clinical diagnosis of myxoma, and the patient underwent a radical extended interatrial septectomy with bovine pericardial patch reconstruction. The 8-cm resected mass consisted of areas of fibrosis alternating with sheets of histiocytes enmeshed in a mixed inflammatory infiltrate. Histiocytes contained intact lymphocytes, plasma cells, neutrophils, and erythrocytes suggesting emperipolesis. The diagnosis of RDD was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. This case highlights the extranodal manifestation of RDD in the heart which could be easily mistaken for a myxoma on clinical and radiologic evaluation. RDD must be considered in the differential diagnosis of any patient who presents with a cardiac mass.

The aims of this population based study were to describe mid- to long-term amputation risk, cumulative incidence of death or amputation, and differences in pre-operative comorbidities in patients revascularised for lower limb peripheral artery disease (PAD).

Because of the large amount of information to process and the limited time of a clinical consult, choosing between carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid angioplasty with stenting (CAS) can be confusing for patients with severe symptomatic internal carotid stenosis (ICA).

We aimed to clarify the pathological characteristics of rheumatic mitral valve disease in Chinese individuals, as well as to determine the appropriate rheumatic mitral valve repair strategy according to such characteristics.

The use of the frozen elephant trunk (FET) technique for repair of type A aortic dissection (TAAD) in Marfan syndrome (MFS) is controversial. We seek to evaluate the efficacy of FET and total arch replacement (TAR) for TAAD in patients with MFS.

The reduction in blood viscosity and iron store were proposed to be connected to the reduction in the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) among multiple blood donors. Herein, we evaluated the modulation of serum lipids levels in accordance with donation events. Furthermore, atherogenic impacts on the risk of CVD were investigated.

Diabetes mellitus (DM), a modern-day epidemic, is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. It is believed that statins elevate the risk of incident DM. Multiple trials were suggestive of the hyperglycemic effect of long-term statin use. This has prompted the Food and Drug Administration to include the risk of DM in the product label of statins. New-onset DM with statin use is biologically plausible and can be explained based on the multiple pathways in glucose metabolism affected by statins. Most pivotal clinical trials on statins were not powered to adequately assess the risk of incident DM with statin use, and the results from multiple meta-analyses are mixed. Currently, the US Preventive Services Task Force recommend the use of statins for primary prevention in patients with at least 1 cardiovascular risk factor and a 10-year risk of >7.5%. With the new American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines, the number of patients eligible for statin therapy has increased exponentially, which also calls for caution and increased vigilance in prescribing physicians regarding the controversies surrounding statin use. This article aims to highlight the existing data on statin use for primary prevention in diabetics and nondiabetics and the association of statins use with new-onset DM and its postulated mechanisms.

This study sought to accurately describe the success rate, risks, and patient-reported benefits of contemporary chronic total occlusion (CTO) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

This review evaluates the cost-effectiveness of using coronary artery calcium (CAC) to guide long-term statin therapy compared with treating all patients eligible for statins according to 2013 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association cholesterol management guidelines for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The authors used a microsimulation model to compare costs and effectiveness from a societal perspective over a lifetime horizon. Both strategies resulted in similar costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). CAC resulted in increased costs (+$81) and near-equal QALY (+0.01) for an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $8,100/QALY compared with the treat-all strategy. For 10,000 patients, the treat-all strategy would theoretically avert 21 atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events, but would add 47,294 person-years of statins. With CAC costs <$100, and higher cost and/or disutility associated with statin therapy, CAC strategy was favored. These findings suggest the economic value of both approaches were similar. Clinicians should account for individual preferences in context of shared decision making when choosing the most appropriate strategy to guide statin decisions.

Quantification of coronary artery calcium (CAC) has been shown to be reliable, reproducible, and predictive of cardiovascular risk. Formal CAC scoring was introduced in 1990, with early scoring algorithms notable for their simplicity and elegance. Yet, with little evidence available on how to best build a score, and without a conceptual model guiding score development, these scores were, to a large degree, arbitrary. In this review, we describe the traditional approaches for clinical CAC scoring, noting their strengths, weaknesses, and limitations. We then discuss a conceptual model for developing an improved CAC score, reviewing the evidence supporting approaches most likely to lead to meaningful score improvement (for example, accounting for CAC density and regional distribution). After discussing the potential implementation of an improved score in clinical practice, we follow with a discussion of the future of CAC scoring, asking the central question: do we really need a new CAC score?

The association of transaortic flow rate (FR) with outcomes was tested in 1,661 patients with aortic valve stenosis (AS) in the SEAS (Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis) study.

This study sought to determine the possibility of interactions between coronary artery calcium (CAC) volume or CAC density with each other, and with age, sex, ethnicity, the new atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk score, diabetes status, and renal function by estimated glomerular filtration rate, and, using differing CAC scores, to determine the improvement over the ASCVD risk score in risk prediction and reclassification.

The aim of this study was to assess the odds of initiation or continuation of pharmacological and lifestyle preventive therapies in patients with nonzero versus zero coronary artery calcium (CAC) score detected on cardiac computed tomography.

Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis (CRMO) is an idiopathic inflammatory disorder primarily of children and adolescents that is characterized by multifocal nonpyogenic relapsing and remitting inflammatory bone lesions. Pulmonary abnormalities are rarely associated with CRMO, with two reported cases of consolidation on chest CT that occurred in children. We present a case of organizing pneumonia in an adult patient with CRMO. The concurrent worsening of pulmonary and bone disease suggests that CRMO may be a rare cause of organizing pneumonia.

Atrial arrhythmias are the most common complication encountered in the growing and aging population with congenital heart disease.

Currently, there is no generally accepted model to predict outcomes in stable coronary heart disease (CHD).

Self-rated health (SRH) may have different implications in various social and cultural settings. However, few studies are available concerning SRH among older persons across countries. The aim of this study was to analyse whether there are cross-national differences in the association between status characteristics, several diseases common among older persons, activities of daily living (ADL), and SRH. The study base was the Comparison of Longitudinal European Studies on Aging (CLESA), which includes data from six population-based studies on aging conducted in Finland, Israel, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain and Sweden. The study population comprised 5,629 persons, with participants from all countries except Italy. Logistic regression analyses were used to assess the relationship between status characteristics, health conditions, ADL and SRH. To examine whether the association among status characteristics, health conditions, ADL and outcome differed across the CLESA countries, interaction terms defined as "variable*country" were considered separately for each variable. Regression analyses revealed that sex, education, lifetime occupation, heart disease and respiratory disease were differently distributed across countries. Among homogeneous factors, marital status (OR=1.21), hypertension (OR=1.41), stroke (OR=1.67), diabetes (OR=2.15), cancer (OR=1.47), musculoskeletal diseases (OR=2.44), and ADL (OR=2.72) turned out to be significantly associated with fair or poor SRH. The results indicate that there are differences in self-ratings of health across countries. These differences cannot be explained entirely by status characteristics, self-reported diseases or functional ability. However, an important finding was that in all countries most of the indicators of medical and functional health were homogeneously associated with SRH.

The aim of this study was to examine whether the heart rate response to adenosine differs after 12 hours [Good control (Good-C)] versus 24 hours [Excellent control (Exc-C)] of caffeine abstinence in adenosine stress thallium-201 (TL) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). Patients (n=729) with suspected ischemic heart disease underwent adenosine TL-MPI after 12 (n=226) and 24 (n=503) hours of caffeine abstinence. There was not significant differences between the heart rate of Exc-C and Good-C in 0-2 min after adenosine infusion (0 min 63.7±9.5 versus 63.7±10.0, 1 min 66.4±10.6 versus 65.3±10.5, 2 min 72.3±11.2 versus 70.6±11.4). The heart rate of Exc-C was higher compared to Good-C in 3-6 min after adenosine infusion (3 min 75.6 ±11.7 versus 73.3±11.6 p=0.013, 4 min 79.2±12.9 versus 76.7±12.2 p=0.012, 5 min 79.4±12.6 versus 76.8±12.4 p=0.009, 6 min 79.4±12.5 versus 77.0±12.3 p=0.016). Therefore, the longer caffeine abstinence, namely 24 hours self-restraint, is effective in adenosine TL-MPI.

There are limited data about clinical outcomes of biodegradable polymer biolimus-eluting BioMatrix stents (BP-BES) and durable polymer everolimus-eluting Xience stents (DP-EES) in real world practice. We sought to compare the clinical outcomes of BP-BES and DP-EES in real world cohorts of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. A prospective multicenter registry enrolled 999 patients treated with BP-BES and 1,000 patients treated with DP-EES. The primary outcome was target lesion failure, defined as a composite of cardiac death, target vessel-related myocardial infarction, or target lesion revascularization. Definite or probable stent thrombosis was also compared in total and propensity score-matched cohorts. The median follow-up duration was 24 months, and mean age was 65 years (interquartile range, 56-72 years). Patients receiving BP-BES had a lower prevalence of acute coronary syndrome, prior myocardial infarction, multi-vessel disease, bifurcation lesions, and left anterior descending artery lesions than those receiving DP-EES. After propensity score matching (692 pairs), target lesion failure occurred in 22 patients receiving BP-BES and in 25 patients receiving DP-EES (3.2% versus 3.6%; adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.92; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.53 to 1.60; p = 0.77). The risk of definite or probable stent thrombosis did not differ between the 2 groups (0.4% versus 0.4%; adjusted HR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.21 to 4.98; p = 0.97). The results were consistent across various subgroups. In the propensity score-matched analysis of real world cohorts, BP-BES showed similar clinical outcomes compared to DP-EES. We need to investigate about whether differences in clinical outcome emerge during long-term follow-up.

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy types 2D and 2F (LGMD 2D and 2F) are autosomal recessive disorders caused by mutations in the alpha- and delta sarcoglycan genes, respectively, leading to severe muscle weakness and degeneration. The cause of the disease has been well characterized and a number of animal models are available for pre-clinical studies to test potential therapeutic interventions. To facilitate transition from drug discovery to clinical trials, standardized procedures and natural disease history data were collected for these mouse models. Implementing the TREAD-NMD standardized operating procedures, we here subjected LGMD2D (SGCA-null), LGMD2F (SGCD-null) and wild type (C57BL/6J) mice to five functional tests from the age of 4 to 32 weeks. To assess whether the functional test regime interfered with disease pathology, sedentary groups were taken along. Muscle physiology testing of tibialis anterior muscle was performed at the age of 34 weeks. Muscle histopathology and gene expression was analysed in skeletal muscles and heart. Muscle histopathology and gene expression was analysed in skeletal muscles and heart. Mice successfully accomplished the functional tests, which did not interfere with disease pathology. Muscle function of SGCA- and SGCD-null mice was impaired and declined over time. Interestingly, female SGCD-null mice outperformed males in the two and four limb hanging tests, which proved the most suitable non-invasive tests to assess muscle function. Muscle physiology testing of tibialis anterior muscle revealed lower specific force and higher susceptibility to eccentric-induced damage in LGMD mice. Analyzing muscle histopathology and gene expression, we identified the diaphragm as the most affected muscle in LGMD strains. Cardiac fibrosis was found in SGCD-null mice, being more severe in males than in females. Our study offers a comprehensive natural history dataset which will be useful to design standardized tests and future pre-clinical studies in LGMD2D and 2F mice.

The concept of a Coronary Heart Team has generated increased interest, including support from major practice guidelines. Here, we review the rationale and the published experience of Coronary Heart Teams.

Although soluble suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (sST2) in serum is known to be associated with ischemic heart disease and heart failure, data regarding its prognostic impact in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is limited. We evaluated the prognostic impacts of serum sST2 and other serum biomarkers in STEMI patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

While hypercholesterolemia plays a causative role for the development of ischemic stroke in large vessels, its significance for cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) remains unclear. We thus aimed to understand the detailed relationship between hypercholesterolemia and CSVD using the well described Ldlr-/- mouse model.

Chronic diseases constitute a major public health challenge. The prevalence of multiple chronic conditions (MCC) has increased. The objective of our study was to describe the prevalence, correlates, and time trends of MCC in the Israeli population and among the nation's 2 main population groups (Jewish and Arab).

Apelin is an endogenous ligand of seven-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor APJ. Apelin and APJ are distributed in various tissues, including the heart, lung, kidney, and even in tumor tissues. Studies show that apelin mRNA is highly expressed in the inner stripe of kidney outer medulla, which plays an important role in process of water and sodium balance. Additionally, more studies also indicate that apelin/APJ system exerts a broad range of activities in kidney. Therefore, we review the role of apelin/APJ system in kidney diseases such as renal fibrosis, renal ischemia/reperfusion injury, diabetic nephropathy, polycystic kidney disease and hemodialysis. Apelin/APJ system can improve renal interstitial fibrosis by reducing the deposition of extracellular matrix. Apelin/APJ system significantly reduces renal ischemia/reperfusion injury by inhibiting renal cell death. Apelin/APJ system involves the progression of diabetic nephropathy. Apelin/APJ system also predicts the process of polycystic kidney disease. Besides, apelin/APJ system prevents some dialysis complications in hemodialysis patients. And apelin/APJ system alleviates chronic kidney disease by inhibiting vascular calcification. Overall, apelin/APJ system plays diversified roles in kidney disease and may be a potential target for the treatment of kidney disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

To the editor, We would like to thank Dr. Hurtado-Torres for his valuable comments on our article entitled "Chocolate Consumption and Risk of Coronary Heart Disease, Stroke, and Diabetes: A Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies", which was published in Nutrients in July 2017 [1]. [...].

Elevated resting heart rate (RHR) or resting pulse rate (RPR) is associated with increased risk of hypertension development. However, information is limited to adults. The purpose of this study is to analyze this association among Chinese children in a prospective design.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the potential role of CD40/CD40 ligand (CD40L) and CD134/CD134 ligand (CD134L) in the development of coronary heart disease (CHD) via the performance of a case-control study.The research objects were 234 cases of CHD patients and 120 cases of well-matched normal controls. Following the separation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry were applied for the detection of mRNA levels and expression levels of CD40/CD40L and CD134/CD134L; meanwhile, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and Fas protein mRNA levels were detected using qRT-PCR.There was no statistical difference in the comparison of baseline characteristics between groups, indicating comparability between groups. qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis indicated that CD40/CD40L and CD134/CD134L mRNA and protein expression levels were all increased in the CHD group than those in the control group. Flow cytometry further confirmed the similar tendency. Meanwhile, ICAM-1 and Fas protein mRNA levels were elevated in the CHD group and positively correlated with the above parameters. Furthermore, CD40/CD40L expression rates were negatively correlated with gender and different types of CHD. Meanwhile, CD134/CD134L expressions were also higher in male patients, in patients with family history, previous history of hypertension, diabetes, and cerebrovascular diseases.CD40/CD40L and CD134/CD134L are increased and may have potential correlation with clinical pathological features of patients with CHD. Further in-depth exploration of costimulatory molecules for CHD guidance as well as intrinsic mechanisms are needed combined with in vivo and in vitro experiments.

The review aims to summarize the literature describing the clinical impact of cardiac fat depots in patients with HIV infection.

The appropriate treatment of bicuspid aortic valve (BAV)-associated aortopathy is still controversial. We aimed to summarize recent evidence from the literature that focused on the prediction of aortopathy progression and adverse aortic events.

Plasma levels of HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) predict the risk of cardiovascular disease at the epidemiological level, but a direct causal role for HDL in cardiovascular disease remains controversial. Studies in animal models and humans with rare monogenic disorders link only particular HDL-associated mechanisms with causality, including those mechanisms related to particle functionality rather than cholesterol content. Mendelian randomization studies indicate that most genetic variants that affect a range of pathways that increase plasma HDL-C levels are not usually associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, with some exceptions, such as cholesteryl ester transfer protein variants. Furthermore, only a fraction of HDL-C variation has been explained by known loci from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), suggesting the existence of additional pathways and targets. Systems genetics can enhance our understanding of the spectrum of HDL pathways, particularly those pathways that involve new and non-obvious GWAS loci. Bioinformatic approaches can also define new molecular interactions inferred from both large-scale genotypic data and RNA sequencing data to reveal biologically meaningful gene modules and networks governing HDL metabolism with direct relevance to disease end points. Targeting these newly recognized causal networks might inform the development of novel therapeutic strategies to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.

To investigate the clinical application of rhythmic abdominal lifting and compression cardiopulmonary resuscitation (ALC-CPR) in cardiac arrest (CA) patients with conventional cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) contraindication (chest rib fracture, chest trauma, etc.).

Pulmonary endarterectomy (PEA) is the most effective treatment available for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Patient selection, surgical technique and perioperative management have improved patient outcomes, which are traditionally linked to surgical and center experience. However, optimal perfusion care has not been well defined. The goal of the international survey was to better characterize the contemporary perfusion management of PEA and highlight similarities and controversies.

A single dose of the apolipoprotein (apo)A-I mimetic peptide D-4F rendered high-density lipoprotein (HDL) less inflammatory, motivating the first multiple-dose study. We aimed to assess safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of daily, orally administered D-4F. High-risk coronary heart disease (CHD) subjects added double-blinded placebo or D-4F to statin for 13 days, randomly assigned 1:3 to ascending cohorts of 100, 300, then 500 mg (n = 62; 46 men/16 women). D-4F was safe and well-tolerated. Mean ± SD plasma D-4F area under the curve (AUC, 0-8h) was 6.9 ± 5.7 ng/mL*h (100 mg), 22.7 ± 19.6 ng/mL*h (300 mg), and 104.0 ± 60.9 ng/mL*h (500 mg) among men, higher among women. Whereas placebo dropped HDL inflammatory index (HII) 28% 8 h postdose (range, 1.25-0.86), 300-500 mg D-4F effectively halved HII: 1.35-0.57 and 1.22-0.63, respectively (P < 0.03 vs. placebo). Oral D-4F peptide dose predicted HII suppression, whereas plasma D-4F exposure was dissociated, suggesting plasma penetration is unnecessary. In conclusion, oral D-4F dosing rendered HDL less inflammatory, affirming oral D-4F as a potential therapy to improve HDL function.

Tricuspid valve replacement has been associated with high mortality and poor long-term outcomes. We report the preoperative risk factors associated with short and long-term outcomes following tricuspid valve replacement with mechanical prostheses.

Traditional risk factors of cardiovascular death in the general population, including body mass index (BMI), serum cholesterol, and blood pressure are also found to relate to outcomes in the geriatric population, but in a differing direction. A higher body mass index, hypercholesterolemia and hypertension are not harmful but even permit better survival at advancing age. This phenomenon is called "reverse epidemiology" or "risk factor paradox" and is also detected in a variety of chronic disease states such as chronic heart failure. Accordingly, a low BMI, blood pressure and cholesterol values are associated with a worse prognosis. Several possible causes are hypothesized to explain this elderly paradox, but this phenomenon remains controversial and its underlying reasons are poorly understood. The aim of this review is to recognize the factors behind this intriguing phenomenon and analyse the consequences that it can bring in the management of the cardiovascular therapy in elderly patient. Finally, a new phenotype identified as "catabolic syndrome" has been postulated.

Data on management of atrial fibrillation (AF) in the Balkan Region are scarce. To capture the patterns in AF management in contemporary clinical practice in the Balkan countries a prospective survey was conducted between December 2014 and February 2015, and we report results pertinent to the use of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs).

Despite that heart rate (HR) control is one of the guideline-recommended treatment goals for heart failure (HF) patients, implementation has been painstakingly slow. Therefore, it would be important to identify patients who have not yet achieved their target heart rates and assess possible underlying reasons as to why the target rates are not met.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a leading indication for liver transplantation (LT). We hypothesized that weight gain after LT may be exacerbated by reduced metabolic rates due to the LT procedure, particularly during exercise. We aimed to compare resting and exercise energy expenditure between patients transplanted for NASH and nontransplant nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) subjects.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) has been suggested as a less invasive treatment for high-risk patients with aortic valve disease. In this study, we compared the outcomes of conventional surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) and TAVR in elderly patients aged over 80.

Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) ligation is usually performed by congenital cardiac surgeons. However, due to the uneven distribution of congenital cardiac surgeons in South Korea, many institutions depend solely on adult cardiac surgeons for congenital cardiac diseases. We report the outcomes of PDA ligations performed by adult cardiac surgeons at our institution.

Phosphoglucomutase 1 deficiency (PGM1 deficiency) has been identified as both, glycogenosis and congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG). The phenotype includes hepatopathy, myopathy, oropharyngeal malformations, heart disease and growth retardation. Oral galactose supplementation at a dosage of 1 g per kg body weight per day is regarded as the therapy of choice.

Disseminated Fusarium infection is associated with high mortality in immunocompromised patients. Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) often have an extended duration of neutropenia during intensive induction chemotherapy, consolidation chemotherapy, and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT). There is no consensus regarding management of invasive disseminated Fusarium infections in the setting of prolonged neutropenia (Tortorano et al., 2014) [1]. We report a case of disseminated Fusarium in a patient with relapsed AML who underwent successful chemotherapy and haplo-identical allogeneic SCT with administration of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and granulocyte infusions.

Metabolic syndrome (MetSyn) represents a clustering of different metabolic abnormalities. MetSyn prevalence is present in approximately 25% of all adults with increased prevalence in advanced ages. The presence of one component of MetSyn increases the risk of developing MetSyn later in life and likely represents a high lifetime burden of cardiovascular disease risk. Therefore we pooled data from multiple studies to establish the prevalence of MetSyn and MetSyn component prevalence across a broad range of ethnicities. PubMed, SCOPUS and Medline databases were searched to find papers presenting MetSyn and MetSyn component data for 18-30 year olds who were apparently healthy, free of disease, and MetSyn was assessed using either the harmonized, National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATPIII), American Heart Association/National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute (AHA/NHBLI), or International Diabetes Federation (IDF) definitions of MetSyn. After reviewing returned articles, 26,609 participants' data from 34 studies were included in the analysis and the data were pooled. MetSyn was present in 4.8-7% of young adults. Atherogenic dyslipidaemia defined as low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was the most prevalent MetSyn component (26.9-41.2%), followed by elevated blood pressure (16.6-26.6%), abdominal obesity (6.8-23.6%), atherogenic dyslipidaemia defined as raised triglycerides (8.6-15.6%), and raised fasting glucose (2.8-15.4%). These findings highlight that MetSyn is prevalent in young adults. Establishing the reason why low HDL is the most prevalent component may represent an important step in promoting primary prevention of MetSyn and reducing the incidence of subsequent clinical disease.

Ohdo syndrome-Maat-Kievit-Brunner (OSMKB) type is an X-linked recessive disorder, a subtype of blepharophimosis-intellectual disability syndromes caused by mutations in the mediator complex subunit 12 ( MED12 ) gene. Here we report a familial OSMKB type with two affected siblings and mutation in MED12 gene.

The Korean Registry of Target Organ Damage in Hypertension aims to evaluate the clinical characteristics and prevalence of subclinical target organ damage in Korean hypertensive patients.

Complete atrioventricular block in fetuses is known to be mostly associated with autoimmune disease and can be irreversible if no steroids treatment is provided. Conventional methods used in clinical practice for diagnosing fetal arrhythmia are limited since they do not reflect the primary electrophysiological conduction processes that take place in the myocardium. The non-invasive fetal electrocardiogram has the potential to better support fetal arrhythmias diagnosis through the continuous analysis of the beat to beat variation of the fetal heart rate and morphological analysis of the PQRST complex.

The European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) is developing Guidelines on Allergen Immunotherapy (AIT) for Allergic Rhinoconjunctivitis (ARC). To inform the development of recommendations, we sought to critically assess the systematic review evidence on the effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of AIT for ARC.

The cellular environment of the mammalian heart constantly is challenged with environmental and intrinsic pathological insults, which affect the proper folding of proteins in heart failure. The effects of damaged or misfolded proteins on the cell can be profound and result in a process termed "proteotoxicity". While proteotoxicity is best known for its role in mediating the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, its role in human heart failure also has been recognized. The UPR involves three branches, including PERK, ATF6, and IRE1. In the presence of a misfolded protein, the GRP78 molecular chaperone that normally interacts with the receptors PERK, ATF6, and IRE-1 in the endoplasmic reticulum detaches to attempt to stabilize the protein. Mouse models of cardiac hypertrophy, ischemia, and heart failure demonstrate increases in activity of all three branches after removing GRP78 from these internal receptors. Recent studies have linked elevated PERK and CHOP in vitro with regulation of ion channels linked with human systolic heart failure. With this in mind, we specifically investigated ventricular myocardium from 10 patients with a history of conduction system defects or arrhythmias for expression of UPR and autophagy genes compared to myocardium from non-failing controls. We identified elevated Chop, Atf3, and Grp78 mRNA, along with XBP-1-regulated Cebpa mRNA, indicative of activation of the UPR in human heart failure with arrhythmias.

Paediatric cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is associated with a marked inflammatory response and triggers release of inflammatory cytokines. The aim of this study was to study the effect of ketamine on the inflammatory response during correction of congenital cyanotic heart diseases.

We herein report the case of a 68-year-old woman with a skin and soft tissue infection at her extremities. The blood culture results were positive for Streptococcus pyogenes, and we started treatment using ampicillin and clindamycin, although subsequent auscultation revealed a new-onset heart murmur. We therefore suspected rheumatic heart disease and infective endocarditis. The case met both the Jones criteria and the modified Duke criteria. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed vegetation on the aortic valve, although the pathological findings were also compatible with both rheumatic heart disease and infective endocarditis. The present findings suggest that these two diseases can coexist in some cases.

Early-onset pulmonary emphysema is uncommon and its pathogenesis is poorly defined. A 30-year-old man was admitted to our intensive care unit with severe respiratory failure. Besides smoking heavily since the 14 years of age, he had habitually inhaled organic solvents, such as toluene, in his adolescence. High-resolution computed tomography showed evident pulmonary emphysema throughout the lung fields. Based on the findings of right heart catheterization, he was diagnosed with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease complicated with pulmonary hypertension. Heavy smoking from a young age and exposure to toluene were the suspected causes of the patient's severe pulmonary emphysema.

To define the clinical phenotype and natural history of sporadic adult-onset degenerative ataxia and to identify putative disease-causing mutations.

Deciphering the fundamental mechanisms controlling cardiac specification is critical for our understanding of how heart formation is initiated during embryonic development and for applying stem cell biology to regenerative medicine and disease modeling. Using systematic and unbiased functional screening approaches, we discovered that the Id family of helix-loop-helix proteins is both necessary and sufficient to direct cardiac mesoderm formation in frog embryos and human embryonic stem cells. Mechanistically, Id proteins specify cardiac cell fate by repressing two inhibitors of cardiogenic mesoderm formation-Tcf3 and Foxa2-and activating inducers Evx1, Grrp1, and Mesp1. Most importantly, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated ablation of the entire Id (Id1-4) family in mouse embryos leads to failure of anterior cardiac progenitor specification and the development of heartless embryos. Thus, Id proteins play a central and evolutionarily conserved role during heart formation and provide a novel means to efficiently produce cardiovascular progenitors for regenerative medicine and drug discovery applications.

Previous studies have identified multiple risk factors that are associated with total cardiac mortality. Nevertheless, identifying specific factors that distinguish patients at risk of arrhythmic death versus heart failure could better target patients likely to benefit from implantable cardiac defibrillators, which have no impact on nonsudden cardiac death.

We aimed to investigate whether preoperative serum neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (sNGALpre-op) predicted postoperative acute kidney injury (AKI) during hospitalisation and 1-year cardiovascular and all-cause mortality following adult cardiac surgery.

Eisenmenger syndrome (ES) is a severe form of pulmonary hypertension in adults with congenital heart disease (CHD) and has a poor prognosis. We aimed to understand factors associated with survival in ES and particularly to assess the potential benefits of advanced pulmonary vasodilator therapy (AT).

Early reports suggest the number of cardiac intensive care unit (CICU) patients with primary noncardiac diagnoses is rising in the United States, but no national data currently exist. We examined changes in primary noncardiac diagnoses among elderly patients admitted to a CICU during the past decade.

There are limited data on the utilization and outcomes of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) among ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients in contemporary practice.

Ischemic Heart Disease, in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease, is prevalent in women, and constitutes a major risk factor for developing major adverse cardiovascular events, including myocardial infarction, stroke, and heart failure. For decades, diagnosis was considered benign and often minimized; however, it is now known that this etiology caries much risk and is a significant burden to the health care system. This review summarizes the current state-of-knowledge on non-obstructive ischemic heart disease (NOIHD), the association between NOIHD and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, potential links between NOIHD and the development of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), and therapeutic options and knowledge gaps for patients living with NOIHD.

Treatments for high-risk essential thrombocythemia (ET) address thrombocytosis, disease-related symptoms, as well as risks of thrombosis, hemorrhage, transformation to myelofibrosis and leukemia. Patients resistant/intolerant to hydroxycarbamide (HC) have a poor outlook. MAJIC (ISRCTN61925716) is a randomized phase II trial of ruxolitinib (JAK1/2 inhibitor) vs Best Available Therapy (BAT) in ET and polycythemia vera (PV) patients resistant or intolerant to HC. Here findings of MAJIC-ET are reported, where the modified intention-to-treat population included 58 & 52 patients randomized to receive ruxolitinib or BAT respectively. There was no evidence of improvement in complete response within 1 year reported in 27 (46.6%) patients treated with ruxolitinib vs 23 (44.2%) with BAT (P=.40). At 2 years rates of thrombosis, hemorrhage and transformation were not significantly different, however some disease-related symptoms improved in patients receiving ruxolitinib relative to BAT. Molecular responses were uncommon; there were two complete molecular responses (CMR) and one partial molecular response (PMR) in CALR positive ruxolitinib-treated patients. Transformation to myelofibrosis occurred in one CMR patient, presumably due to the emergence of a different clone raising questions about the relevance of CMR in ET patients. Grade 3&4 anemia occurred in 19% & 0% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) BAT arm, grade 3&4 thrombocytopenia in 5.2% & 1.7% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) of BAT treated patients. Rates of discontinuation or treatment switching did not differ between the two trial arms. The MAJIC-ET trial suggests that ruxolitinib is not superior to current second-line treatments for ET.

The definition of severe aortic stenosis has classically and retrospectively been based on the natural history of patients with medically managed aortic stenosis and preserved left ventricular function in an era where surgical aortic valve replacement was the sole therapy. We now recognize that this disease is more heterogeneous and includes important subsets of patients with low stroke volume index (low flow) and low-gradient with reduced (classical) or preserved (paradoxical) ejection fraction. These patients pose diagnostic and treatment dilemmas, requiring a comprehensive assessment with integration of multimodality imaging, testing, and clinical assessment. Surgery in these patients has been associated with higher operative mortality and lower long-term survival. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), because of its less-invasive nature, avoidance of the detrimental effects of cardiopulmonary bypass, and larger effective orifice area, offers several potential advantages. Studies of TAVR in low-flow severe aortic stenosis patients have demonstrated that TAVR has a significant mortality benefit compared with medical therapy and a similar benefit compared with surgery. Both low flow and low ejection fraction have emerged as important factors in predicting mortality post-TAVR, with particularly poor survival when flow or ejection fraction fail to improve. The recognition, diagnosis, and treatment of patients with low-flow severe aortic stenosis remains challenging. It is likely that TAVR will play an increasingly important role in the management of these patients.

We describe the case of a woman presenting with transient ischaemic attack, who was found to have a papillary fibroelastoma arising from the aortic wall, an extremely rare location. We describe the multimodality imaging techniques used in diagnosing this patient and review the most recent literature on evaluation and management of patients with cardiac papillary fibroelastomas.

Background -The safety and efficacy of a novel cobalt alloy-based coronary stent with a durable elastomeric polymer eluting the antiproliferative agent ridaforolimus for treatment of patients with coronary artery disease is undetermined. Methods -A prospective, international 1:1 randomized trial was conducted to evaluate in a noninferiority design the relative safety and efficacy of ridaforolimus-eluting stents (RES) and slow-release zotarolimus-eluting stents (ZES) among 1,919 patients at 76 centers undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Inclusion criteria allowed enrollment of patients with recent myocardial infarction (MI), total occlusions, bifurcations lesions and other complex conditions. Results -Baseline clinical and angiographic characteristics were similar between the groups. Overall, mean age was 63.4 years, 32.5% were diabetic and 39.7% presented with acute coronary syndromes. At 12 months, the primary endpoint of target lesion failure (composite of cardiac death, target vessel-related MI and target lesion revascularization) was 5.4% for both devices (upper bound of one-sided 95% confidence interval 1.8%, Pnoninferiority=0.001). Definite/probable stent thrombosis rates were low in both groups (0.4% RES vs. 0.6% ZES, P=0.75). 13-month angiographic in-stent late lumen loss was 0.22 ± 0.41 mm and 0.23 ± 0.39 mm (Pnoninferiority=0.004) for the RES and ZES groups, respectively, and intravascular ultrasound percent neointimal hyperplasia was 8.10 ± 5.81 and 8.85 ± 7.77, respectively (Pnoninferiority=0.01). Conclusions -In the present trial which allowed broad inclusion criteria, the novel RES met the prespecified criteria for noninferiority compared with ZES for the primary endpoint of target lesion failure at 12 months, and had similar measures of late lumen loss. These findings support the safety and efficacy of RES in patients representative of clinical practice. Clinical Trial Registration -URL: www.ClinicalTrials.gov Unique Identifier: NCT01995487.

To determine whether the effects of intensive (<120 mmHg) compared with standard (<140 mmHg) systolic blood pressure (SBP) treatment are different among those with prediabetes versus those with fasting normoglycemia at baseline in the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT).

Statins are a class of therapeutics used to regulate serum cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart disease. Although statins are highly effective in removing cholesterol from the blood, their consumption has been linked to potential adverse effects in some individuals. The most common events associated with statin intolerance are myopathy and increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, the pathological mechanism through which statins cause these adverse effects is not well understood.

Most of the research on primary care workload has focused on the number of visits or the average duration of visits to a primary care physician (PCP) and their effect on the quality of medical care. However, the accumulated annual visit duration has yet to be examined. This measure could also have implications for the allocation of resources among health plans and across regions. In this study we aimed to define and characterize the concept of "Accumulated Annual Duration of Time" (AADT) spent with a PCP.  METHOD: A cross-sectional study based on a national random sample of 77,247 adults aged 20 and over. The study's variables included annual number of visits and AADT with a PCP, demographic characteristics and chronic diseases. The time period was the entire year of 2012.

180 Airforce personnel selected by stratified random sampling technique were studied for coronary risk factors. Nearly 27% individuals had one, 21% had two and 15% had multiple risks. Tobacco smoking was found to be the commonest risk factor (54%) followed by physical inactivity (45%), hyper-cholesterolaemia (22.2%), obesity (20%), hypertension (15%) and positive family history (12.2%). The prevalence of smoking, physical inactivity, excessive intake of dietary cholesterol and serum cholesterol values were seen significantly rising with age. The mean cholesterol values in the age group of 30-39, 40 years and above were higher than the WHO recommended values. The findings of the study suggest a greater emphasis on health education of airmen on coronary heart disease and its positive association with certain risk factors.

Cardiovascular disease is the dominant cause of mortality in developed countries, with coronary artery disease (CAD) a predominant contributor. The development of stents to treat CAD was a significant innovation, facilitating effective percutaneous coronary revascularization. Coronary stents have evolved from bare metal compositions, to incorporate advances in pharmacological therapy in what are now known as drug eluting stents (DES). Deployment of a stent overcomes some limitations of balloon angioplasty alone, but provides an acute stimulus for thrombus formation and promotes neointimal hyperplasia. First generation DES effectively reduced in-stent restenosis, but profoundly delay healing and are susceptible to late stent thrombosis, leading to significant clinical complications in the long term. This review characterizes the development of coronary stents, detailing the incremental improvements, which aim to attenuate the major clinical complications of thrombosis and restenosis. Despite these enhancements, coronary stents remain fundamentally incompatible with the vasculature, an issue which has largely gone unaddressed. We highlight the latest modifications and research directions that promise to more holistically design coronary implants that are truly biocompatible.

Osteoporotic vertebral fractures adversely impact quality of life and also increase the risk of infection and mortality. Alendronate treatment increases bone mass and reduces the risk of fractures in patients with osteoporosis by suppressing bone resorption. We investigated the relationship between alendronate treatment and infection-related death in patients with osteoporotic vertebral fractures.

Kidney dysfunction is prevalent and impacts prognosis in patients with acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF). However, most previous reports were from a single hospital, limiting their generalizability. Also, contemporary data using new equation for estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) are needed.

During the past decade, the most common causes of mortality and morbidity were cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. The aim of the current study was to describe the incidence, course of admission, and short-term (30-day) prognosis of patients with and without malignancy, admitted to a tertiary center intensive cardiovascular care unit (ICCU).

Diagnostic screening for Anderson-Fabry cardiomyopathy (AFC) is performed in the presence of specific clinical red flags in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) older than 25 years. However, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) has been traditionally considered an exclusion criteria for AFC.

Previous studies have found marked differences in survival after in-hospital cardiac arrest by race. Whether racial differences in survival have narrowed as overall survival has improved remains unknown.

Since the enforcement of Generics Act (1999), three types of pharmaceutically equivalent products are marketed in Brazil: innovative reference (REF), "similar" (S) and generic (G) drugs. The S (brand name) and G (generic name) borrow from REF (brand name) clinical data on safety and efficacy and dosage regimen. G (but not S) is bioequivalent to and interchangeable with REF. Starting in 2003, Brazilian Sanitary Surveillance Agency (Anvisa) has required data on relative bioavailability tests (with REF) to approve (or renew registration of) S drugs. In 2014, Anvisa extended interchangeability notion to similar drugs with a "comparable" bioavailability, i.e., an "equivalent" similar drug (EQ). Drugs for chronic diseases and "critical dose medicines" are listed among the EQ drugs approved. Interchangeability of nonbioequivalent medicines raises deep concerns regarding therapeutic failures and adverse events. Concerns are even more worrisome if patients switch from one drug to another during an ongoing treatment for illnesses such as epilepsy, congestive heart failure, hypertension, diabetes and/or substitutable drugs have a narrow therapeutic index.

Published data on the association between Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) Asp299Gly polymorphism and coronary heart disease (CHD) susceptibility are inconclusive. To derive a more precise estimation of the relationship, a meta-analysis was performed. English-language studies were identified by searching PubMed and Embase databases (up to November 2016). All epidemiological studies were regarding Caucasians because no TLR4 Asp/Gly and Gly/Gly genotypes have been detected in Asians. A total of 20 case-control studies involving 14,416 cases and 10,764 controls were included in the meta-analysis. Overall, no significant associations were found between TLR4 Asp299Gly polymorphism and CHD susceptibility in the dominant model (OR=0.89; 95%CI=0.74 to 1.06; P=0.20) pooled in the meta-analysis. In the subgroup analysis by CHD, non-significant associations were found in cases compared to controls. When stratified by control source, no significantly decreased risk was found in the additive model or dominant model. The present meta-analysis suggests that the TLR4 Asp299Gly polymorphism was not associated with decreased CHD risk in Caucasians.

In our study, we aimed to reveal potential long non-coding RNAs (lncRNA) biomarkers in lung adenocarcinoma (LAD) using lncRNA-mediated competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) network (LMCN). Competing lncRNA-mRNA interactions were identified using the hypergeometric test. Co-expression analysis for the competing lncRNA-mRNA interactions was implemented, and relying on the weight value >0.8, a highly competitive LMCN was further constructed. Degree distribution, betweenness and closeness for LMCN were carried out to analyze the network structure. Functional analyses of mRNAs in LMCN were carried out to further explore the biological functions of lncRNAs. Biclique algorithm was utilized to extract competing modules from the LMCN. Finally, we verified our findings in an independent sample set using qRT-PCR. Based on degrees >60, we identified 4 hubs, including DLEU2, SNHG12, HCP5, and LINC00472. Furthermore, 2 competing modules were identified, and LINC00472 in module 1 functioned as a hub in both LMCN and module. Functional implications of lncRNAs demonstrated that lncRNAs were related to histone modification, negative regulation of cell cycle, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, and regulation of actin cytoskeleton. qRT-PCR results demonstrated that lncRNAs LINC00472, and HCP5 were down-regulated in LAD tissues, while the expression level of SNHG12 was up-regulated in LAD tissues. Our study sheds novel light on the roles of lncRNA-related ceRNA network in LAD and facilitates the detection of potential lncRNA biomarkers for LAD diagnosis and treatment. Remarkably, in our study, LINC00472, HCP5, and SNHG12 might be potential biomarkers for LAD management.

Elevated salt intake induces changes in the extracellular matrix collagen, leading to myocardial stiffness and impaired relaxation. Resistance training (RT) has been used as a remarkably successful strategy in the treatment of heart disease. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of RT on preventing pathological adaptation of the left ventricle (LV) induced by salt overload. Male Wistar rats (10 weeks old) were distributed into four groups (n=8/group): control (CO), control+1% salt (CO+SALT), RT and RT+1% salt (RT+SALT). The RT protocol consisted of 4×12 bouts of squat training, 5/week for 8 weeks, with 80% of one repetition maximum (1RM). Echocardiographs were analyzed and interstitial collagen volume fraction (CVF) was determined in the LV. The 1RM tests in the RT and RT+SALT groups increased 145 and 137%, respectively, compared with the test performed before the training program. LV weight-to-body weight ratio and LV weight-to-tibia length ratio were greater in the RT and RT+SALT groups, respectively, compared with the CO group. Although there was no difference in the systolic function between groups, diastolic function decreased 25% in the CO+SALT group compared with the CO group measured by E/A wave ratio. RT partially prevented this decrease in diastolic function compared with the CO+SALT group. A 1% salt overload increased CVF more than 2.4-fold in the CO+SALT group compared with the CO group and RT prevented this increase. In conclusion, RT prevented interstitial collagen deposition in LV rats subjected to 1% NaCl and attenuated diastolic dysfunction induced by salt overload independent of alterations in blood pressure.

Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer were responsible for 68% of all deaths worldwide in 2012. The regional distribution of lipid deposited within adipose tissue (AT) - so called body fat distribution (BFD) - is a strong risk factor for NCDs. BFD is highly heritable; however, the genetic basis of BFD is almost entirely unknown. Genome-wide association studies have identified several loci associated with BFD, including at Plexin D1 (PLXND1) - a gene known to modulate angiogenesis. We recently demonstrated that zebrafish homozygous for a null mutation in plxnd1 had a reduced capacity to store lipid in visceral AT (VAT) leading to altered BFD. Moreover, we found that type V collagens were upregulated in plxnd1 mutants, and mediated the inhibitory effect of Plxnd1 on VAT growth. These results strengthen evidence that Plxnd1 influences BFD in human populations, and validate zebrafish as a model to study BFD. However, many pertinent questions remain unanswered. Here we outline potential Plxnd1 mechanisms of action in AT, and describe the genetic architecture at human PLXND1 that is associated with BFD and NCD susceptibility.

At present, there are growing rates of psychiatric symptoms among some occupational categories, with emphasis on health professionals who work in hospitals. This study aimed to identify the occurrence of mental health problems (anxiety and depression) among 92 nursing workers in a paediatric cardiac intensive care unit. This is an exploratory, cross-sectional study, with a quantitative approach. The research was conducted in a public university hospital specialising in cardiology, pneumology, and thoracic and cardiac surgery. The data were collected between June and July of 2012 through socio-demographic and Self-Reporting Questionnaire (SRQ-20) instruments. The analysis of the results revealed the occurrence of mental health problems in 45% (41) of the workers. There was the prevalence of tension, nervousness and worry symptoms, followed by headache. Findings highlight the need for protective measures towards the mental health of workers who assist children with serious heart disease.

To examine the proportion of people with diabetes in the multi-ethnic country of Mauritius meeting American Diabetes Association targets in 2009 and 2015.

Mental health is a worldwide public health concern, as can be seen from the WHO's comprehensive mental health action plan 2013-2020 which was adopted by the 66th World Health Assembly. According to the Mental health commission of Canada (2012), one in five Canadians will personally experience a mental illness in their lifetime, and the WHO shows that mental illness represents the second most prevalent risk of morbidity after heart disease. Physical activity certainly provides an answer to this problem. Physical activity has been shown to improve physical health but it is also one of the most natural and accessible means to improve mental health. The aim of the present article is to propose a biopsychosocial model on the basis of a literature review on the psychological benefits of physical activity. In view of the findings we assume that physical activity increases mental well-being and optimal mental health as opposed to poor mental health. Hence, physical activity provides a state of well-being that enables individuals to realize their own potential, and that helps to cope with the normal stresses of life or adversity. The model certainly opens the way for research and new hypothesis, but it also aims at the promotion of the benefits of physical activity on psychological well-being for optimal mental health.

Shen Yuan et al. [1] highlight the protective cardiometabolic effects of chocolate intake. Without doubt, their work contributes to support evidence about the salutary and wide protective effects of chocolate compounds, particularly flavanols and its derivatives.[...].

Cardio-metabolic disease, namely ischemic heart disease, stroke, obesity, and type 2 diabetes, represent substantial health and economic burdens. Almost one half of cardio-metabolic deaths in the U.S. might be prevented through proper nutrition. Plant-based (vegetarian and vegan) diets are an effective strategy for improving nutrient intake. At the same time, they are associated with decreased all-cause mortality and decreased risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and coronary heart disease. Evidence suggests that plant-based diets may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease events by an estimated 40% and the risk of cerebral vascular disease events by 29%. These diets also reduce the risk of developing metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes by about one half. Properly planned vegetarian diets are healthful, effective for weight and glycemic control, and provide metabolic and cardiovascular benefits, including reversing atherosclerosis and decreasing blood lipids and blood pressure. The use of plant-based diets as a means of prevention and treatment of cardio-metabolic disease should be promoted through dietary guidelines and recommendations.

Survey of Assessment and MAnagement of CoRonary Heart Disease PaTients was undertaken to describe profile and management pattern of adult Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) patients from presentation till discharge, in private tertiary care Indian hospitals.

Since pathophysiologic evidence has been raised to suggest that obesity could facilitate an allergic reaction, obesity has been known as an independent risk factor for allergic disease such as asthma. However, the relationship between sedentary behavior and lifestyle which could lead to obesity, and those allergic diseases remains unclear.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a rare disorder associated with abnormally elevated pulmonary pressures that, if untreated, leads to right heart failure and premature death. Special population include patents with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). A greater understanding of the epidemiology, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology of PAH has led to significant advances over the past few years. Modern drug therapy provides a significant improvement in patient symptomatic status and a slower rate of clinical deterioration. Despite this, PAH remains a chronic disease without a cure. There is a need for the development of novel therapies and therapeutic strategies, as treatment options are neither universally available nor always effective, possibly due to the large number of mediator and signaling pathways with downstream effectors which are implicated in the pathobiology of PH, and which are not fully reversed during PAH therapy. In the following pages, we review novel strategies for treatment of PAH. For this purpose we summarized the role of specific drug therapies that involve: endothelin receptor antagonists (ERA), phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE-5i) and prostacyclin and prostanoids (PGI2). We focused on novel molecular mechanisms in PAH of recently approved: Guanylate cyclase stimulator and non-prostanoid IP receptor agonist. We discussed novel approach to combined therapy, as well as a new generation of investigational drugs and promising PAH-associated signaling pathways, such as, PDGF, RhoA/ROCK RAAS, HT-5 and others.

N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) release is associated with left ventricular expansion and pressure overload. Elevation of serum levels of natriuretic peptides is observed in patients with impaired as well as preserved left ventricular systolic function. High NT-proBNP has been shown to be related not only to preload but also to increased afterload, especially blood pressure and arterial stiffness.

Syncope can be caused by serious occult arrhythmias not evident during initial emergency department (ED) evaluation. We sought to develop a risk-tool for predicting 30-day arrhythmia or death after ED disposition.

Aging causes progressive structural and functional deteriorations of the heart and is a predisposing risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) the major cause of morbidity and mortality in Western countries. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Vasovagal tonus index (VVTI) is an indirect measure of heart rate variability and may serve as a marker of disease severity. Higher heart rate variability has predicted lower tumour burden and improved survival in humans with various tumour types. The purpose of this pilot study was to evaluate VVTI as a biomarker of remission status in canine lymphoma. The primary hypothesis was that VVTI would be increased in dogs in remission compared to dogs out of remission. Twenty-seven dogs were prospectively enrolled if they had a diagnosis of intermediate to high-grade lymphoma and underwent multidrug chemotherapy. Serial electrocardiogram data were collected under standard conditions and relationships between VVTI, remission status and other clinical variables were evaluated. VVTI from dogs in remission (partial or complete) did not differ from dogs with fulminant lymphoma (naive or at time of relapse). Dogs in partial remission had higher VVTI than dogs in complete remission (p = 0.021). Higher baseline VVTI was associated with higher subsequent scores (p < 0.001). VVTI also correlated with anxiety level (p = 0.03). Based on this pilot study, VVTI did not hold any obvious promise as a useful clinical biomarker of remission status. Further investigation may better elucidate the clinical and prognostic utility of VVTI in dogs with lymphoma.

Tricuspid valve regurgitation is frequently found as a result of right ventricular remodeling due to advanced left heart diseases. Drug treatment is limited to diuretics and the cardiac or pulmonary comorbidities. Due to the high risk only a small percentage of patients are amenable to surgical treatment of tricuspid regurgitation in those who undergo left-sided surgery for other reasons. Catheter-based procedures are an attractive treatment alternative, particularly since the strong prognostic impact of tricuspid regurgitation suggests an unmet need of treatment, independent of the underlying heart disease. A vast amount of clinical experience exists for the MitraClip system for treatment of mitral regurgitation. A first case series shows that the application for treatment of tricuspid regurgitation is technically feasible, seems to be safe and the degree of valve regurgitation can be reduced. In this review the background of tricuspid regurgitation treatment is summarized and first experiences and perspectives with the MitraClip system are assessed.

We speculated that ubiquitin specific peptidase 4 (USP4) may deubiquitinate interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and affect T helper type 2 (Th2) cell function. This study aimed to validate this hypothesis. Here, the interaction between USP4 and IRF4 were analyzed by co-immunoprecipitation assay. The deubiquitin effect of USP4 on IRF4 was analyzed by the Ni-NTA pull down assay. Luciferase reporter gene constructs were used to analyze the effects of USP4, IRF4 and nuclear factor of activated T cell-2 (NFATc2) on the activation of the interleukin-4 (IL-4) promoter. Then, the Th2 cells were infected with sh-USP4 to analyze the effects of USP4 on the expression levels of IRF4 and Th2-related cytokines. Western blotting and RT-qPCR were used to detect the protein and mRNA expression levels, respectively. To determine the levels of IL-4 and IRF4 in rheumatic heart disease (RHD) patients, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were separated by density gradient centrifugation from RHD patients and healthy controls, and flow cytometric analysis was performed. Our results validated the interaction between USP4 and IRF4, and effects of USP4 on stabilization and deubiquitination of IRF4 were also found. Importantly, USP4 and IRF4 synergized with NFATc2 to specifically enhance NFAT-mediated activation of the IL-4 promoter. USP4 knockdown not only decreased the expression level of IRF4, but also affected the expression level of Th2-related cytokines. Finally, the increased level of IL-4 and IRF4 in PBMCs of RHD patients were observed. On the whole, our data indicate that USP4 interacts with and deubiquitinates IRF4, and also stabilizes IRF4 protein and promotes IRF4 function to facilitate IL-4 expression in Th2 cells, which may be related to the pathological process of RHD.

Nowadays, the society is facing a large health problem with the rising of new diseases, including cancer, heart diseases, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and obesity. Thus, it is important to invest in substances that enhance the health of the population. In this context, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is a flavonoid found in many plants, especially in tea. Several studies support the notion that EGCG has several benefits in fighting cancer, heart diseases, diabetes, and obesity, among others. Nevertheless, the poor intestinal absorbance and instability of EGCG constitute the main drawback to use this molecule in prevention and therapy. The encapsulation of EGCG in nanocarriers leads to its enhanced stability and higher therapeutic effects. A comprehensive review of studies currently available on the encapsulation of EGCG by means of nanocarriers will be addressed.

To evaluate the risk factors for pterygium in the dry, high altitude province of Ilam, Iran.

Background: Strenuous and endurance exercise training have been associated with morphological and functional heart remodeling. Two-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) is a novel technique that allows an accurate quantification of global myocardium deformation. Our aim was to evaluate together left and right cardiac remodeling in different long-distance running athletes: marathon runners (42 km) (M) and endurance mountain runners (>300 Km) (UT). Methods: A total of 92 athletes (70 males, 76%) including 47 M [age 45 ± 7 years; training: 18 (9-53) years(*)days/week], 45 UT [age 42 ± 9, training: 30 (15-66) years(*)days/week] underwent conventional echocardiography and STE (Beyond Diogenes 2.0, AMID) during the agonistic season. Results: Right ventricle (RV) end-diastolic area (p = 0.026), fractional area changing (FAC) (p = 0.008) and RV global longitudinal strain (GLS) were significantly increasedin UT athletes. Furthermore, UT showed larger right atrium (RA) volume (p = 0.03), reduced RA GLS and significantly increased RA global circumferential strain (GCS) compared to M. After adjustment for age, sex, and HR as covariates, UT showed a reduced RA GLS (OR 0.907; CI 0.856-0.961) and increased RV FAC (OR 1.172; CI: 1.044-1.317) compared to M. Conclusion: Athletes enrolled in UT endurance activities showed RV and RA morphological and functional remodeling to increased preload in comparison with M runners characterized by increased RV FAC and reduced RA GLS. Follow-up studies are needed to better assess the long-term clinical impact of these modifications. 2D STE is a useful tool for investigating the deformation dynamic in different sports specialties.

Primary insomnia (PI) may increase diabetes risk. We tested the hypothesis that the effects of PI on glucose metabolism could be improved by 2 months of pharmacological treatment.

Several studies have examined the efficacy of smoking cessation therapies in the general population. However little is known about the efficacy of these advisory methods in cardiovascular patients.

Recent studies in animal models and humans show that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are involved in the development of atherosclerosis, which contributes to the pathological foundation of coronary artery disease (CAD). LncRNAs in plasma and serum have been considered as promising novel biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of cardiovascular diseases, especially CAD. We here measured the circulating levels of 8 individual lncRNAs which are known to be relevant to atherosclerosis in the plasma samples from 300 patients with CAD and 180 control subjects by using quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) methods. We found that the plasma level of H19 and long intergenic non-coding RNA predicting cardiac remodeling (LIPCAR) were significantly increased in patients with CAD. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.631 for H19 and 0.722 for LIPCAR. Multivariate logistic regression analyses indicated that plasma H19 and LIPCAR were independent predictors for CAD, even after adjustment for traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Further studies identified that plasma levels of H19 and LIPCAR were also increased in CAD patients with heart failure compared to those with normal cardiac function. Taken together, our results suggest that increased plasma levels of H19 and LIPCAR are associated with increased risk of CAD and may be considered as novel biomarkers for CAD.

For general thoracic surgeons, perioperative management for prevention of cardiac complications is important because patients undergoing general thoracic surgery often have risk factors for cardiac disease. Sever cardiac failure should be detected and treated prior to surgery, and coronary artery may be examined in patients with risk factors for ischemic heart disease. Pulmonary resection sometimes causes right-sided heart failure due to reducing pulmonary vascular bed. In high-risk patients for rightsided heart failure, pulmonary artery pressure monitoring by right heart catheterization should be considered in addition to blood pressure and central venous pressure monitoring, and precise fluid management is required. Because perioperatively occurred myocardial infarction is sometimes lethal, patients with preoperatively identified significant coronary artery stenosis, percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting should be considered although surgeons need to be careful for the timing of surgery and anticoagulant therapy. Even if patients have no typical symptoms, perioperative myocardial infarction can be diagnosed 12-lead electrocardiogram and serum biomarkers. Cooperation with cardiologists is necessary for the treatment of perioperative myocardial infarction. Although arrhythmia is one of the major complications after general thoracic surgery, arrhythmia with hemodynamic instability should be immediately treated. Early diagnosis and management of cardiovascular events can minimize the consequences of these complications.

Chronic kidney disease(CKD) is an important risk factor of open heart surgery. In addition, worsening of kidney function after the surgery leads to poor prognosis long-term. It is therefore crucial to protect the kidney function by intensive perioperative management in open heart surgery. In the patients having stage 3-4 CKD, mean arterial pressure needs to be higher than 70 mmHg and cardiac index needs to be greater than 2.4 intraoperatively and postoperatively. Continuous right heart monitoring by Swan-Ganz catheter is useful for this purpose. In the patients having stage 5 CKD, systemic complications need to be thoroughly evaluated preoperatively. Hemodialysis and serum potassium control during the extracorporeal circulation is important to minimize delay of postoperatively recovery. For coronary artery bypass grafting, off-pump approach would be a good option in stage 3-4 and stage 5 CKD patients.

Cerebrovascular complication is the one of the most dreadful complication after open heart surgery which leads to significant decrease of quality of life even if the patients survived. To decrease these complications, carotid doppler echo as one of the non-invasive carotid screening modalities is effective. Carotid artery stenosis is common in the patients with coronary artery disease, and it is more frequent in the patients with more complexed coronary artery lesions. The more the patients indicated for coronary artery bypass grafting has complexed lesions these days, the more the patients have carotid artery lesions. In case of presence of significant carotid artery stenosis with symptom, carotid artery intervention, either carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery stenting, should be considered by multidisciplinary team. The carotid artery stenosis could cause cerebral infarction by 2 major mechanisms, which are emboli, and low perfusion pressure. In open heart surgery, it is very important to avoid these occasions. Although It is still controversial whether off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting is superior to conventional on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in randomized trial, it is necessary in common to avoid atheromatous emboli from aorta and to avoid low perfusion pressure by all means.

Amyloidoma is very rare case of amyloidosis, and seldom develop into systemic disease. We report a case of an 82-year-old man who was referred to our hospital because of an oppressive feeling in the upper chest. Chest computed tomography showed a tumor on thoracic vertebral body. Percutaneous needle biopsy showed pathological findings of AL amyloidosis. No obvious systemic finding was confirmed, and the tumor was diagnosed as amyloidoma. After a 1-year observation, heart amyloidosis was appeared, then 6 months later he died. The autopsy revealed amyloid deposit on thoracic vertebral body, heart, arterial walls, esophagus, kidney, thyroid gland, stomach and lung. Careful observation is suggested to be necessary for amyloidoma considering the possibility of the development into systemic amyloidosis.

This case study aim to evaluate the response of steroid treatment for autoimmune endocarditis. Valvular heart disease is relatively rising in both congenital and acquired cases, but the autoimmune endocarditis remains rare. In this case, a 34 year old woman with clinical manifestation resembling systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is diagnosed with Libman-sacks Endocarditis. After six months of steroid treatment, her clinical manifestations and heart structure improved.

Primary ciliary dyskinesia is a genetically heterogeneous inherited condition characterised by progressive lung disease arising from abnormal cilia function. Approximately half of patients have situs inversus. The estimated prevalence of primary ciliary dyskinesia in the UK South Asian population is 1:2265. Early, accurate diagnosis is key to implementing appropriate management but clinical diagnostic tests can be equivocal.

To describe self-reported disease understanding for newly diagnosed patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) and assess (1) how disease understanding changes over the first 6 months after diagnosis and (2) the relationship between patient understanding of therapies at baseline and treatment receipt at 6 months among treatment-naïve patients.

Interpretation of missense variants can be especially difficult when the variant is also found in control populations. This is what we encountered for the LMNA c.992G>A (p.(Arg331Gln)) variant. Therefore, to evaluate the effect of this variant, we combined an evaluation of clinical data with functional experiments and morphological studies.

It is presumed that echocardiographic laboratory accreditation leads to improved quality, but there are few data. We sought to compare the quality of echocardiographic examinations performed at accredited versus nonaccredited laboratories for the evaluation of valvular heart disease.

Endogenous regenerative capacity, assessed as circulating progenitor cell (PC) numbers, is an independent predictor of adverse outcomes in patients with cardiovascular disease. However, their predictive role in heart failure (HF) remains controversial. We assessed the relationship between the number of circulating PCs and the pathogenesis and severity of HF and their impact on incident HF events.

To compare cardiovascular risk factors as well as rates of cardiovascular diseases in middle-aged women from urban areas in Scotland and Sweden.

We hypothesize that in patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), lower values of the ratio of total epicardial coronary arterial lumen volume to left ventricular myocardial mass (V/M) result in lower fractional flow reserve (FFR).

Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited disease characterized by polymorphic or bidirectional ventricular arrhythmias (VA) triggered by physical or emotional stress in young people with a structurally normal heart. Beta-blockers are the cornerstone of treatment, while flecainide has recently been incorporated into the therapeutic arsenal. The aim of this study was to report our experience with this drug.

The invasive physiologic index such as fractional flow reserve (FFR) or instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) is used in clinical practice to identify ischemia-causing stenosis and to guide treatment strategy. We investigated clinical and angiographic characteristics of lesions with discrepancy between FFR and iFR.

The impact of coronary artery disease (CAD) and revascularization on outcome in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has not been fully elucidated so far.

Exosomes are cell-derived circulating vesicles that play an important role in cell-cell communication. Exosomes are actively assembled and carry messenger RNAs, microRNAs and proteins. The "gold standard" for cardiac allograft surveillance is endomyocardial biopsy (EMB), an invasive technique with a distinct complication profile. The development of novel, non-invasive methods for the early diagnosis of allograft rejection is warranted. We hypothesized that the exosomal proteome is altered in acute rejection, allowing for a distinction between non-rejection and rejection episodes.

The preventive role of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) in cancer is not well established. The present study sought to evaluate the association between CRF and cancer incidence in men.

Ascites is common in patients with liver cirrhosis. It may present as a clinical manifestation in nephrotic syndrome in adults, typically with heart- or liver disease together with other oedema. We describe a 64-year-old male patient - with no liver or heart disease - with relapsing ascites and no other oedema, who was surprisingly diagnosed with primary membranous nephropathy (MN), and the autoantibody anti-PLA2R was positive. Through immunotherapy the ascites disappeared. Anti-PLA2R and anti-TSHD7A can be used in the diagnosis (primary/secondary MN) and may play a role in the treatment and prognosis.

High mobility group box-1 (HMGB-1) is a nuclear protein also acting as inflammatory mediator, whilst osteoprotegerin (OPG), member of tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, is indicated as marker of vascular calcification. Peripheral artery disease (PAD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are clinical conditions characterized by elevated serum inflammatory markers and vascular calcification enhancement. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential role of HMGB-1, OPG and several inflammatory mediators such as C-reactive protein (HsCRP), tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 (IL-6) on the presence and severity of peripheral artery disease in patients with T2D.

Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are known to present with multiple vessel lesions during coronary angiography. The underlying mechanism remains elusive and there is a shortage of serum prediction markers. In this study, we investigate the relationship between admission HbA1c and severity of coronary artery stenosis and subsequent prognosis in AMI patients with or without diabetes.

Background Reports associate marijuana use with cardiovascular emergencies. Studies relating marijuana use to cardiovascular mortality are scarce. Recent advance towards marijuana use legalization emphasizes the importance of understanding relationships between marijuana use and cardiovascular deaths; the primary ranked mortality. Recreational marijuana is primarily smoked; we hypothesize that like cigarette smoking, marijuana use will be associated with increased cardiovascular mortalities. Design The design of this study was based on a mortality follow-up. Method We linked participants aged 20 years and above, who responded to questions on marijuana use during the 2005 US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey to data from the 2011 public-use linked mortality file of the National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Only participants eligible for mortality follow-up were included. We conducted Cox proportional hazards regression analyses to estimate hazard ratios for hypertension, heart disease, and cerebrovascular mortality due to marijuana use. We controlled for cigarette smoking and other relevant variables. Results Of the 1213 eligible participants 72.5% were presumed to be alive. The total follow-up time was 19,569 person-years. Adjusted hazard ratios for death from hypertension among marijuana users compared to non-marijuana users was 3.42 (95% confidence interval: 1.20-9.79) and for each year of marijuana use was 1.04 (95% confidence interval: 1.00-1.07). Conclusion From our results, marijuana use may increase the risk for hypertension mortality. Increased duration of marijuana use is associated with increased risk of death from hypertension. Recreational marijuana use potentially has cardiovascular adverse effects which needs further investigation.

The components of Zhibitai capsules are based on classic Chinese traditional medicinal formula, including natural statin, statin homologue, triterpenes and flavonoids. Zhibitai capsules is effective on dyslipidemia by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis and absorption. Several randomized clinical trials in Chinese patients have shown that Zhibitai capsules could reduce low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 18%-34% and triglycerin (TG) by 30%.Zhibitai capsules had less side effects compared to statins, which interpreted a synergistic effect with Zhibitai capsules. Although no evidence has been proved to use Zhibitai capsules as prophylaxis of cardiovascular diseases, Zhibitai capsules is still an alternative choice of both primary and secondary prophylaxis of cardiovascular diseases.

 As part of the National Exercise and Heart Disease Project, 223 postcoronary men, aged 30 to 64, were randomly assigned to moderate exercise or control groups. Levels of total plasma cholesterol, high- and low-density lipoprotein (HDL and LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides were measured. At baseline, alcohol intake, weight, and skin-fold thickness but not treadmill work capacity correlated with triglyceride or HDL cholesterol levels. After one year, no clinically important change in lipid levels was observed in either group. Using multiple regression analysis of the combined groups, changes in several independent variables, including work capacity change, were not predictive of changes in lipid levels. Thus, changes in levels of fitness and/or regular exercise did not substantially influence HDL cholesterol or other lipid levels.

Competent cardiac auscultation remains a most important skill for the detection of heart disease. Currently it is poorly taught and often ignored or poorly performed, resulting in inaccurate and inefficient patient assessments. This review documents that teaching can be over 90% effective with new, proven teaching methods emphasizing repetition and normal-abnormal comparisons of sounds, using computer-aided and online resources. At present, these concepts are not widely adopted by medical schools. Our current knowledge of teaching heart auscultation is critically reviewed, including traditional bedside, clinic and classroom settings, as well as computer, simulator, and multimedia-based learning. The assessment of auscultation skill in the learning process. The adoption of competence-based learning promises to integrate the assessment of auscultation skill in the learning process. Newer teaching methods, such as auditory training and repetitive listening, offer excellent murmur recognition and diagnosis learning, and hand-held ultrasound is proposed as a helpful adjunct to teaching auscultation. Although ongoing research remains important to develop better teaching methods, the adoption of proven existing concepts has great potential to improve teaching and practice of this valuable skill.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is characterized by arterial wall inflammation and matrix degradation. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-22 and -29 and pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL18) are present in human hearts. IL18 may regulate MMP-22 and -29 expression, which may correlate with CHD progression.

Exertional angina in patients with no coronary flow limiting lesions remains a clinical puzzle. We aimed to assess the extent of coronary artery calcification (CAC) and its relationship to ventricular wall motion function using stress echocardiography in a group of patients limited by exertional angina, but no obstructive lesions.

This study sought to investigate the clinical utility of aortic valve calcium score (AVCS) determined by using cardiac multislice computed tomography (MSCT).

To assess the effects of each traditional cardiovascular risk factor (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and smoking), including the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD), on carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and to assess the degree of carotid plaque occurrence.

Overweight (OW) and obesity (OB) are endemic in the United States and affect adolescents and adults with congenital heart disease (ACHD). Defining the burden of excess weight on the cardiovascular system in ACHD is the goal of this study. Limitation of exercise capacity due to overweight or obesity might be reversible with weight loss and improve quality of life for ACHD adults.

Transthoracic Doppler-echocardiography (TTE) can estimate mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) reliably, and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is the best modality for non-invasive measurement of cardiac output (CO). We speculated that the combined use of TTE and CMR could provide a feasible method for non-invasive measurement of pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).

Sex specific temporal trends in the incidence and prevalence of hospitalization for heart failure (HF), particularly in conjunction with reduced and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) remain unclear, especially in Asian general populations.

Fragmented QRS (FQRS) in 12 lead ECG was recently correlated with various outcomes in ischemic and non-ischemic heart disease. We studied the relationship between FQRS and ejection fraction (EF) in heart failure patients with QRS < 120 ms.

To investigate whether women presenting with suspected angina would show less severe coronary artery disease in than men as determined by the extent score.

In light of recent reports showing high incidence of silent cerebral infarcts and organized atrial arrhythmias following radiofrequency (RF) atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation, a review of its safety aspects is timely. Serious complications do occur during supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) ablations and knowledge of their incidence is important when deciding whether to proceed with ablation. Evidence is emerging for the probable role of prophylactic ischemic scar ablation to prevent VT. This might increase the number of procedures performed. Here we look at the various complications of RF ablation and also the methods to minimize them. Electronic database was searched for relevant articles from 1990 to 2015. With better awareness and technological advancements in RF ablation the incidence of complications has improved considerably. In AF ablation it has decreased from 6% to less than 4% comprising of vascular complications, cardiac tamponade, stroke, phrenic nerve injury, pulmonary vein stenosis, atrio-esophageal fistula (AEF) and death. Safety of SVT ablation has also improved with less than 1% incidence of AV node injury in AVNRT ablation. In VT ablation the incidence of major complications was 5-11%, up to 3.4%, up to 1.8% and 4.1-8.8% in patients with structural heart disease, without structural heart disease, prophylactic ablations and epicardial ablations respectively. Vascular and pericardial complications dominated endocardial and epicardial VT ablations respectively. Up to 3% mortality and similar rates of tamponade were reported in endocardial VT ablation. Recent reports about the high incidence of asymptomatic cerebral embolism during AF ablation are concerning, warranting more research into its etiology and prevention.

In optical coherence tomography (OCT)-guided percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), stent size is usually determined according to the pre-PCI lumen size of either the distal or proximal reference site. However, the effect of the OCT imaging catheter crossing the target lesion on the reference lumen measurements has not been studied. We evaluated changes in the reference lumen size before and after PCI using frequency domain OCT.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a serious complication in patients with systemic scleroderma (SSc), therefore it is important to identify the factors that could predict the presence and progression of PH. Skin biopsy is performed in patients with SSc to examine the type and severity of the disease. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are potential biomarkers for various cardiovascular diseases including PH.

Detecting coronary artery disease (CAD) is pivotal in etiologic assessment and management of left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. Only a limited number of studies have specifically addressed the accuracy of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) in detection/exclusion of CAD in patients with LV systolic dysfunction.

We investigated the effect of chronic kidney disease (CKD) on morbidity and mortality following transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) including patients on haemodialysis, often excluded from randomised trials.

In patients with heart disease, the presence of a fragmented QRS complex (fQRS) on the surface electrocardiogram (ECG) is associated with an increased risk of mortality. We sought to evaluate the prevalence and location of fQRS before and after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation and any associated risk of mortality.

Altitude-hypoxia induces pulmonary arterial hypertension and altered cardiac morphology and function, which is little known in healthy children at high altitude. We compared the cardiopulmonary measurements between the healthy children at 16 m and those at 3700 m in China and between the Hans and the Tibetans at 3700 m.

Quantitative imaging analyses showed an earlier septal wall involvement in hypertension. We planned to determine the effect of hypertension on regional myocardial performance index (MPI) in a hypertensive patient population.

We hypothesised that stress echocardiography (SE), may be superior to exercise ECG (ExECG), for predicting CAD and outcome, and cost-beneficial, when performed as initial investigation in newly suspected angina.

Dilated Cardiomyopathy (DCM) is one of the most commonly encountered heart diseases reported globally. It is characterized by enlarged ventricles with impaired systolic and diastolic functions. Mutations in LMNA gene are one of the causative factors to precipitate the disease. However, association of SNPs of LMNA with DCM in particular has not been well documented.

CHADS2 or CHA2DS2-VASc score is used for prediction of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Recently, CHADS2 score is reported to have prognostic value in acute coronary syndrome without AF. However, clinical validation of CHA2DS2-VASc score for prognostic stratification in coronary heart disease (CHD) without AF remains uncertain. In this study, we evaluate whether CHA2DS2-VASc score could predict clinical outcome in CHD without known AF.

We sought to identify prognostic factors of long-term mortality, specific for the underlying etiology of chronic systolic heart failure (CHF).

Chronic inflammation, the fundamental pathogenetic process of atherosclerosis, can be modified by pharmacological and non-pharmacological measures as a part of secondary prevention after acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The aim of our study was to determine the effect of diet, rich with natural antioxidants, added to physical activity (as a part of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program) on inflammatory markers and ox-LDL, a marker of oxidative stress, closely involved in the process of chronic inflammation.

With the publication of the 2014 Focused Update of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Guidelines for the Management of Atrial Fibrillation, the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Atrial Fibrillation Guidelines Committee has introduced a new triage and management algorithm; the so-called "CCS Algorithm". The CCS Algorithm is based upon expert opinion of the best available evidence; however, the CCS Algorithm has not yet been validated. Accordingly, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of the CCS Algorithm in a cohort of real world patients.

To determine the outcomes of patients with chest pain (CP) and prior history of coronary artery disease (CAD) managed with observation followed by outpatient stress myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI).

We reviewed 185 PVC catheter ablation cases and identified 17 in which PVCs were successfully ablated in the aortic cusps.The MDI measured 0.53 ± 0.10 (median 0.50, IQR 0.47-0.60).In all (100%) cases MDI was > 0.40 and in 7 (41%) cases it was > 0.55.Pseudo-delta wave was absent in all but one PVCPVC origin in the aortic cusps should be considered along with the epicardium when MDI is in the vicinity of 0.55.

Calcified amorphous tumor (CAT) of the heart is a rare non-neoplastic intracavitary cardiac mass. Several case reports have been published but large series are lacking.

Pediatric catheterization exposes patients to varying radiation doses. Concerns over the effects of X-ray radiation dose on the patient population have increased in recent years. This study aims at quantifying the patient radiation dose reduction after the introduction of an X-ray imaging technology using advanced real time image noise reduction algorithms and optimized acquisition chain for fluoroscopy and exposure in a pediatric and adult population with congenital heart disease.

Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity typically presents as congestive heart failure (CHF). As immuno-inflammatory activation and apoptosis are important mechanisms in the process of heart failure, the use of biomarkers that could detect cardiovascular toxicity before the clinical presentation is of great importance. We studied whether sTNF-a, sTNF-RI, sTNF-RII, Fas/FasLigand system and NT-proBNP associate with early cardiac dysfunction in patients receiving cardiotoxic drugs.

Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) results in intermittent hypoxia leading to atrial remodeling, which, among other things, facilitates development of atrial fibrillation. While much data exists on the macrostructural changes in cardiac physiology induced by OSA, there is a lack of studies looking for histologic changes in human atrial tissue induced by OSA which might lead to the observed macrostructural changes.

Deaths due to coronary heart disease (CHD) remain high worldwide, despite recent achievements. An effective screening strategy may improve outcomes further if implemented in a high or 'at risk' cohort. Asymptomatic CHD in the young maybe underappreciated and applying an effective screening strategy to a young cohort may lead to improved outcomes due to significant socioeconomic impact from the consequences of CHD in this sub-group. A positive family history of CHD, which is known to be associated with an increased risk of future myocardial events, could aid in identifying the 'at risk' young cohort. Traditional cardiovascular risk scoring systems are in wide use but lack the sensitivity or specificity required to estimate risk in an individual. Rather their use is limited to predicting population attributable risk. Functional studies such as exercise stress tests are readily available and cost effective but do not have the required sensitivity required to suggest their use as part of a screening protocol. Coronary CT angiography has been demonstrated to have high sensitivity for the detection of CHD and therefore may be suitable for screening purposes but there are concerns regarding radiation exposure. Here we review the evidence for the use of potential screening strategies and the suitability of using such strategies to estimate risk of CHD in a young 'at risk' population.

Despite substantive growth in utilization of positron emission tomography (PET) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), evidence on its prognostic value is limited. We aimed to comprehensively evaluate the prognostic literature of PET perfusion measures according to the most recent American Heart Association recommendations for assessment of novel cardiovascular biomarkers.

Collagen type IV is the major constituent of basement membranes underlying endothelial cells and is important for endothelial cell attachment and function. Autoantibodies against native collagen type IV have been found in various autoimmune diseases. Oxidation of LDL in the vascular wall results in the formation of reactive aldehydes, which could modify surrounding matrix proteins. Like oxidized LDL, these modified matrix proteins are likely to induce immune responses. We examined whether autoantibodies against native or aldehyde-modified collagen type IV are associated with myocardial infarction.

Our aim was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of routine transradial approach (TRA) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for chronic total occlusion (CTO) lesions using the sheathless technique with standard guiding catheters.

Few studies have reported the differences between transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and 64-slice multidetector CT (64-MDCT) in identifying left atrium (LA) thrombi. I report the case of a 70 year old man with coronary artery disease and angina who was diagnosed with a thrombus in the left lower pulmonary vein extending to the LA using a non-invasive 64-MDCT scan and TTE. TTE was unable to clearly identify a thrombus in the pulmonary veins, whereas a 64-MDCT scan identified a thrombus in the pulmonary vein but was unable to detect a moving thrombus attached to the mitral valves. The 64-MDCT images of LA thrombi are smaller than those of TTE and the video created using TTE demonstrated a moving thrombus connected to the mitral valve, which was underdiagnosed by a 64-MDCT scan. This case illustrates the complementary role for both TTE and 64-MDCT in the noninvasive diagnosis of left atrial-pulmonary vein thrombi.

Despite revolutionary advancement in medicine over the past century, cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the leading cause of death and disability in the world. Likewise, the morbidity and mortality of CVD in China are increasing persistently, although the government has taken an active part in the prevention and control of CVD. Here we present an overview regarding the current CVD status in China with respect to various disease phenotypes, as well as the anticipated future trend in accordance with the dynamics and distribution of pathogenesis in Chinese actual situations.

Cardiogenic shock is a serious complication of a ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). We compared short- and long-term mortality among (1) STEMI patients with and without cardiogenic shock and (2) STEMI patients with cardiogenic shock with and without the use of an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP).

Dual antiplatelet treatment (DAPLT) for at least 12 months is recommended after drug eluting stent (DES) implantation, but concerns regarding the extended use of this treatment persist due to increased risk of bleeding. In this study are assessed the incidence, correlates, and clinical significance of bleeding complications in diabetic patients after long-term DAPLT post DES implantation.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most prevalent and single most common cause of morbidity and mortality [1] with the resulting left ventricular (LV) dysfunction an important complication. The distinction between viable and non-viable myocardium in patients with LV dysfunction is a clinically important issue among possible candidates for myocardial revascularization. Several available non-invasive techniques are used to detect and assess ischemia and myocardial viability. These techniques include echocardiography, radionuclide images, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and recently myocardial computed tomography perfusion imaging. This review aims to distinguish between the available non-invasive imaging techniques in detecting signs of functional and perfusion viability and identify those which have the most clinical relevance in detecting myocardial viability in patients with CAD and chronic ischemic LV dysfunction. The most current available studies showed that both myocardial perfusion and function based on non-invasive imaging have high sensitivity with however wide range of specificity for detecting myocardial viability. Both perfusion and function imaging modalities provide complementary information about myocardial viability and no optimum single imaging technique exists that can provide very accurate diagnostic and prognostic viability assessment. The weight of the body of evidence suggested that non-invasive imaging can help in guiding therapeutic decision making in patients with LV dysfunction.

Many of the factors that are known to alter left atrial (LA) contractility are present in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM). Nevertheless, preservation of LA contractile function in this group of patients was reported in previous studies. The aim of this study was to assess the changes in LA size, geometry and contractile function in ICM.

Fractional flow reserve (FFR) assessment provides anatomical and physiological information that is often used to tailor treatment strategies in coronary artery disease. Whilst robust data validates FFR use in stable ischaemic heart disease, its use in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is less well investigated. We critically review the current data surrounding FFR use across the spectrum of ACS including culprit and non-culprit artery analysis. With adenosine being conventionally used to induce maximal hyperaemia during FFR assessment, co-existent clinical conditions may preclude its use during acute myocardial infarction. Therefore, we include a current review of instantaneous wave free ratio as a novel vasodilator independent method of assessing lesion severity as an alternative strategy to guide revascularisation in ACS.

Functional tricuspid regurgitation (FTR) is frequent in patients with mitral valve disease. Untreated tricuspid regurgitation (TR) may cause poor clinical outcomes. The surgical factors involved in annuloplasty for FTR remain controversial. Our objective was to compare effectiveness of different tricuspid annuloplasty (TVP), and reveal the risk factors of recurrence.

Although left ventricular (LV) global systolic longitudinal strain (GLS) reliably and accurately assesses LV systolic function and is also a powerful prognostic predictor, the importance and prognostic value of GLS in end-stage renal disease patients receiving maintenance peritoneal dialysis (PD) remain unclear. This study sought to determine the prognostic value of GLS in chronic PD patients.

Heart disease is a common cause of morbidity and mortality during pregnancy. Symptoms and signs of heart failure in a pregnant woman are an indication for urgent assessment to establish a diagnosis and appropriate management. This is best accomplished through a multidisciplinary approach in which both cardiologists and obstetricians need to participate in order to provide expert counselling and care in pursuit of safe motherhood. Congenital heart disease, although common, once corrected is an unusual source of complications, which are more likely to develop as a consequence of ventricular failure, pulmonary hypertension and aortic arch disease. Rheumatic valvular heart disease is a challenge because of the need for anticoagulation during pregnancy and the risk of sepsis associated with childbirth. This review outlines a contemporary approach to heart failure presenting during pregnancy.

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a progressive and debilitating disease with a broad symptom profile, intermittently marked by periods of acute decompensation. CHF patients are encouraged to self-manage their illness, such as adhering to medical regimens and monitoring symptoms, to optimise health outcomes and quality of life. In so doing, patients are asked to collaborate with their health service providers with regard to their care. However, patients generally do not self-manage well, even with specialist support. Moreover, self-management interventions are yet to demonstrate morbidity or mortality benefits. Social network approaches to self-management consider the availability and mobilisation of all resources, beyond those of only the patient and healthcare providers. Used in conjunction with e-health platforms, social network approaches may offer a means by which to optimise self-management programmes of the future.

The foundation of treatment for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction is guideline-directed medical treatment. However, surgical revascularisation offers improved survival and quality of life for patients with more extensive coronary disease and the greatest degree of left ventricular systolic dysfunction and remodelling. The most commonly considered surgical interventions for patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are coronary artery bypass surgery, sometimes combined with surgical ventricular reconstruction and surgery for mitral regurgitation. In this review, the author considers the risks and benefits of coronary artery bypass graft versus percutaneous coronary intervention in the management of heart failure patients with multivessel disease.

This review article addresses the question of whether biomarker-guided therapy is ready for clinical implementation in chronic heart failure. The most well-known biomarkers in heart failure are natriuretic peptides, namely B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal pro-BNP. They are well-established in the diagnostic process of acute heart failure and prediction of disease prognosis. They may also be helpful in screening patients at risk of developing heart failure. Although studied by 11 small- to medium-scale trials resulting in several positive meta-analyses, it is less well-established whether natriuretic peptides are also helpful for guiding chronic heart failure therapy. This uncertainty is expressed by differences in European and American guideline recommendations. In addition to reviewing the evidence surrounding the use of natriuretic peptides to guide chronic heart failure therapy, this article gives an overview of the shortcomings of the trials, how the results may be interpreted and the future directions necessary to fill the current gaps in knowledge. Therapy guidance in chronic heart failure using other biomarkers has not been prospectively tested to date. Emerging biomarkers, such as galectin-3 and soluble ST2, might be useful in this regard, as suggested by several post-hoc analyses.

Postoperative shock following cardiac surgery is a serious condition with a high morbidity and mortality. There are four types of shock: cardiogenic, hypovolemic, obstructive and distributive and these can occur alone or in combination. Early identification of the underlying diseases and understanding of the mechanisms at play are key for successful management of shock. Prompt resuscitation measures are necessary to reverse the shock state and avoid permanent organ dysfunction or death. In this review, the authors focus on the management during the first 6 hours of shock (the 'golden hours'). They discuss how to optimise preload, vascular tone, contractility, heart rate and oxygen delivery. The review incorporates the findings of recent trials on early goal-directed therapy and includes practical recommendations in areas in which the evidence is scare or controversial. While the review focuses on cardio-surgical patients, the suggested treatment algorithms might be usefully expanded to other critically ill patients with shock arising from other causes.

Pulmonary oedema (PO) is a common manifestation of acute heart failure (AHF) and is associated with a high-acuity presentation and with poor in-hospital outcomes. The clinical picture of PO is dominated by signs of pulmonary congestion, and its pathogenesis has been attributed predominantly to an imbalance in Starling forces across the alveolar-capillary barrier. However, recent studies have demonstrated that PO formation and resolution is critically regulated by active endothelial and alveolar signalling. PO represents a medical emergency and treatment should be individually tailored to the urgency of the presentation and acute haemodynamic characteristics. Although, the majority of patients admitted with PO rapidly improve as result of conventional intravenous (IV) therapies, treatment of PO remains largely opinion based as there is a general lack of good evidence to guide therapy. Furthermore, none of these therapies showed simultaneous benefit for symptomatic relief, haemodynamic improvement, increased survival and end-organ protection. Future research is required to develop innovative pharmacotherapies capable of relieving congestion while simultaneously preventing end-organ damage.

Mechanical circulatory support has emerged as an important therapy for advanced heart failure, with more than 18,000 continuous flow devices implanted worldwide to date. These devices significantly improve survival and quality of life and should be considered in every patient with end-stage heart failure with reduced ejection fraction who has no other life-limiting diseases. All candidates for device implantation should undergo a thorough evaluation in order to identify those who could benefit from device implantation. Long-term management of ventricular assist device patients is challenging and requires knowledge of the characteristic complications with their unique clinical presentations.

Sleep-disordered breathing (SDB), either obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) or central sleep apnoea (CSA)/Cheyne-Stokes respiration (CSR) and often a combination of the two, is highly prevalent in patients with heart failure (HF), is associated with reduced functional capacity and quality of life, and has a negative prognostic impact. European HF guidelines identify that sleep apnoea is of concern in patients with HF. Continuous positive airway pressure is the treatment of choice for OSA, and adaptive servoventilation (ASV) appears to be the most consistently effective therapy for CSA/CSR while also being able to treat concomitant obstructive events. There is a growing body of evidence that treating SDB in patients with HF, particularly using ASV for CSA/CSR, improves functional outcomes such as HF symptoms, cardiac function, cardiac disease markers, exercise tolerance and quality of life. However, conflicting results have been reported on 'hard' outcomes such as mortality and healthcare utilisation, and the influence of effectively treating SDB, including CSA/CSR, remains to be determined in randomised clinical trials. Two such trials (SERVE-HF and ADVENT-HF) in chronic stable HF and another in post-acute decompensated HF (CAT-HF) are currently underway.

Heart failure and diabetes mellitus contribute significantly to the morbidity and mortality of the US population. The combined economic impact on the US health care system reaches nearly $300 billion. Much of this cost stems from the frequent hospital admissions and direct cost of managing the two diseases. The presence of diabetes significantly increases the risk of developing heart failure compared to the general population and diabetics with heart failure experience significantly higher mortality. Patients with heart failure have a high incidence of insulin resistance and are at increased risk of developing diabetes mellitus. Traditionally these two chronic illnesses have been managed in relative isolation. However the adverse effects of each disease has significant impact on the other. The combination of heart failure and diabetes mellitus significantly increases the morbidity and mortality compared to either in isolation. This paper reviews the epidemiology and impact of the bidirectional effects of these two chronic illnesses.

Despite optimized medical therapy, severe idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) is a devastating disease with a poor outcome. Autoantibodies have been detected in IPAH that can contribute to worsening of the disease.

One of the most commonly identified chronic illnesses in many countries is type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). T2DM denotes an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Heart disease is one of the causes of mortality in patients with diabetes, mainly due to the macrovascular complications. One of these macrovascular complications in diabetes is atherosclerosis, which involves a complicated pathophysiological process. Besides hyperglycemia, oxidative stress plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of diabetes and its associated risk of CVD. There are many other factors including molecular, metabolic, lipid, fibrinolytic, and platelet function disorders precipitate to thrombotic and CVD risks in T2DM. Also, Platelets have an increased response to procoagulants in patients with diabetes. Platelet hyperactivity, in the presence of oxidative stress, has a major effect on the progression of thrombotic and CVD events. This review will discuss the impact of the above factors and the potential effects of platelet hyperactivity on thrombotic and cardiovascular risks.

Methamphetamine dependence is a major public health problem. This study examined the nature, and extent, of cardiovascular disease amongst cases of methamphetamine-related death in Australia, 2009-2015.

Sympatho-adrenal responses are activated as an innate defense coping (DefS) mechanism during emotional stress. Whether these sympatho-adrenal responses drive cardiac troponin T (cTnT) increases are unknown. Therefore, associations between cTnT and sympatho-adrenal responses were assessed.

The identification of rare coding or splice site variants remains the most straightforward strategy to link genes with human phenotypes. Here, we analyzed the association between 137,086 rare (minor allele frequency (MAF) <1%) coding or splice site variants and 15 hematological traits in up to 308,572 participants. We found 56 such rare coding or splice site variants at P<5x10-8, including 31 that are associated with a blood-cell phenotype for the first time. All but one of these 31 new independent variants map to loci previously implicated in hematopoiesis by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). This includes a rare splice acceptor variant (rs146597587, MAF = 0.5%) in interleukin 33 (IL33) associated with reduced eosinophil count (P = 2.4x10-23), and lower risk of asthma (P = 2.6x10-7, odds ratio [95% confidence interval] = 0.56 [0.45-0.70]) and allergic rhinitis (P = 4.2x10-4, odds ratio = 0.55 [0.39-0.76]). The single new locus identified in our study is defined by a rare p.Arg172Gly missense variant (rs145535174, MAF = 0.05%) in plasminogen (PLG) associated with increased platelet count (P = 6.8x10-9), and decreased D-dimer concentration (P = 0.018) and platelet reactivity (P<0.03). Finally, our results indicate that searching for rare coding or splice site variants in very large sample sizes can help prioritize causal genes at many GWAS loci associated with complex human diseases and traits.

Osteoprotegerin (OPG) is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). OPG has also been associated with fibrosis and collagen cross-linking, which increase arterial and left ventricle (LV) myocardial stiffness. Little is known about the relation of OPG and LV structure and function in African-Americans who are disproportionately affected by HFpEF.

Hyperlipidemia is a well-established risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). Severe CAD has been observed in patients with normal levels of total and LDL cholesterol. Small-dense LDL particle subtypes (LDL3 and LDL4) have been observed to be more oxidizable and atherogenic. We aimed to identify the role of cholesterol particle subtypes in predicting CAD severity.

The pressure study was carried out to evaluate the hypotheses that ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) is superior to clinic blood pressure for ischemic stroke and that ABP is important to refine risk stratification.

Preoperative risk and postoperative outcomes among the elderly are the subject of extensive debate. However, the eldest old, that is, the fastest-growing and most vulnerable group, are insufficiently studied; even their mortality rate is unclear. This prospective observational study was performed with the aim of determining the mortality rate of this population and establishing which preoperative conditions were predictors of which postoperative outcomes. The study was undertaken between 2011 and 2015 in a major tertiary care university hospital.

The risk stratification for prognosis in heart failure is very important for optimal disease management and decision making. The aim of this study was to establish a simple discharge 1-year mortality prediction model by integrating data obtained from demographic characteristics, clinical evaluation, laboratory biomarkers and echocardiographic evaluation of hospitalised heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) patients with acute decompensation.

To compare the magnitude of multivariable coefficients and hazard ratios of four cardiovascular risk factors across five worldwide regions of the Seven Countries Study in predicting 50-year coronary deaths.

The incidence of children born with congenital heart disease is 1%. Congenital heart disease is among the birth defects that lead to the longest hospital stays, and children with congenital heart disease often require frequent hospitalization and several heart operations, along with lifelong follow-up visits. This study aims to describe parents' experiences when their child has a heart defect and undergoes open heart surgery. A total of 10 parents were interviewed: 8 mothers and 2 fathers. The interviews took place 2 years after the heart surgery. The interviews were analyzed using a content analysis method, which resulted in 4 categories: maintaining belief, experiencing the surgery as a turning point, experiencing the pediatric intensive care unit with anxiety and fear, and perception of support. When parents face their child having a congenital heart defect and plan heart surgery, the whole family is living through a stressful time and has to handle many difficult situations. Parents need support from the health care team.

Errant neovascularization and coronary artery fistulae (CAF) are frequently observed after cardiac transplantation. The relationship between angiographic neovascularization/CAF and coronary plaque progression is unknown.

Patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA) suffer from inflammatory diseases often treated by large amounts of corticosteroids. Whether this inflammatory burden also carries an increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity, and especially ischemic heart disease, is not clearly established.

The management of patients with in-stent restenosis (ISR) is still a major clinical challenge even in the era of drug-eluting stents (DES). Recent studies have demonstrated acceptable clinical outcomes for the everolimus-eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) ABSORB in patients with stable coronary artery disease but data are scarce on its use in patients with ISR. We report the long-term results of our preliminary experience with this novel approach at our institution.

In recent years, non-vitamin K antagonist (VKA) oral anticoagulants (NOACs) have been increasingly prescribed to adults with congenital heart disease (CHD) and atrial arrhythmias without good evidence for either safety or efficacy. To address this gap, we initiated an ongoing prospective global registry (NOTE: non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants for thromboembolic prevention in patients with congenital heart disease). Using the NOTE registry data, the present study aimed to evaluate the occurrence of any adverse events during the initiation phase (first 30 days) of NOACs in adults with CHD and atrial arrhythmias.

Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) are widely used for the prevention of sudden cardiac death. At present, both clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of ICD therapy in primary prevention patients are topics of discussion, as only a minority of these patients will eventually receive appropriate ICD therapy.

Estimating the quantitative effect of transcatheter mitral valve repair on functional parameters and quality of life is important for individual treatment decision-making.

The heart is a principal target of thyroid hormone, and a reduction of cardiac thyroid hormone signaling is thought to play a role in pathological ventricular remodeling and the development of heart failure. Studies in various rodent models of heart disease have identified increased activity of cardiac type III deiodinase as a possible cause of diminished levels and action of thyroid hormone. Recent data indicate novel mechanisms underlying the induction of this thyroid hormone-degrading enzyme in the heart as well as post-transcriptional regulation of its expression by microRNAs. In addition, the relevance of diminished thyroid hormone signaling for cardiac remodeling is suggested to include miRNA-mediated effects on pathological signaling pathways. These and other recent studies are reviewed and discussed in the context of other processes and factors that have been implicated in the reduction of cardiac thyroid hormone signaling in heart failure.

Congenital systemic-to-pulmonary collateral arteries or major aortopulmonary collaterals are associated with cyanotic congenital heart disease with decreased pulmonary blood flow. Though it is usually associated with congenital heart diseases, there is an increased incidence of isolated acquired aortopulmonary collaterals in premature infants with chronic lung disease. Interestingly, isolated congenital aortopulmonary collaterals can occur without any lung disease, which may cause congestive heart failure and require closure. We present a neonate with an echocardiogram that showed only left-sided heart dilation. Further workup with a CT angiogram demonstrated an anomalous systemic artery from the descending thoracic aorta supplying the left lower lobe. He eventually developed heart failure symptoms and was taken to the catheterization laboratory for closure of the collateral. However, with the collateral being the only source of blood flow to the entire left lower lobe, he required surgical unifocalization. Isolated aortopulmonary collaterals without any other congenital heart disease or lung disease are rare. Our patient is the first reported case to have an isolated aortopulmonary collateral being the sole pulmonary blood supply to an entire lung segment. Due to its rarity, there is still much to learn about the origin and development of these collaterals that possibly developed prenatally.

Cancer and cardiovascular disease account for nearly half of all deaths in the US. The majority of cancer therapies are known to cause potential cardiac toxicity in some form. Patients with underlying cardiac disease are at a particularly increased risk for worse outcomes following cancer therapy. Most alarming is the potential for heart failure as a result of cancer treatment, which may lead to early disruption or withdrawal of life-saving cancer therapies and can potentially increase cardiovascular mortality. A multi-disciplinary cardio-oncology approach can improve outcomes through early surveillance, prevention and treatment strategies.

Functional changes in the heart in patients with cancer can be a result of both the disease itself and various cancer therapies, and limiting cardiac damage has become an increasingly important issue as survival rates in patients with cancer have improved. Processes involved in cancer-induced cardiac atrophy may include cardiomyocyte atrophy and apoptosis, decreased protein synthesis, increased autophagy and proteolysis via the ubiquitin-proteosome system. Further to direct effects of malignancy on the heart, several chemotherapeutic agents are known to affect the myocardium, in particular the anthracyclines. The aim of this report is to review the effects of cancer and cancer treatment on the heart and what is known about the underlying mechanisms. Furthermore, clinical strategies to limit and treat cancer-associated cardiac atrophy are discussed, emphasising the benefit of a multidisciplinary approach by cardiologists and oncologists to optimise models of care to improve outcomes for patients with cancer.

Heart failure (HF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) comorbidity poses substantial diagnostic and therapeutic challenges in acute care settings. The specific role of pulmonary comorbidity in the treatment and outcomes of cardiovascular disease patients was not addressed in any short- or long-term prospective study. Both HF and COPD can be interpreted as systemic disorders associated with low-grade inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, vascular remodelling and skeletal muscle atrophy. HF is regularly treated as a broader cardiopulmonary syndrome utilising acute respiratory therapy. Based on observational data and clinical expertise, a management strategy of concurrent HF and COPD in acute settings is suggested. Concomitant use of beta2-agonists and beta-blockers in a comorbid cardiopulmonary condition seems to be safe and effective.

Diabetes and heart failure are closely related: patients with diabetes have an increased risk of developing heart failure and those with heart failure are at higher risk of developing diabetes. Furthermore, antidiabetic medications increase the risk of mortality and hospitalisation for heart failure in patients with and without pre-existing heart failure. When the two diseases are considered individually, heart failure has a much poorer prognosis than diabetes mellitus; therefore heart failure has to be a priority for treatment in patients presenting with the two conditions, and the diabetic patient with heart failure should be managed by the heart failure team. No specific randomised clinical trials have been conducted to test the effect of cardiovascular drugs in diabetic patients with heart failure, but a wealth of evidence suggests that all interventions effective at improving prognosis in patients with heart failure are equally beneficial in patients with and without diabetes. The negative effect of glucose-lowering agents in patients with heart failure or at increased risk of heart failure has become evident after the withdrawal of rosiglitazone, a thiazolidinedione, from the EU market due to evidence of increased risk of cardiovascular events and hospitalisations for heart failure. An important issue that remains unresolved is the optimal target level of glycated haemoglobin, as recent studies have demonstrated significant reductions in total mortality, morbidity and risk of heart failure despite achieving HbA1c levels similar to those observed in the UKPDS study conducted some decades ago. Meta-analyses showed that intensive glucose lowering is not associated with any significant reduction in cardiovascular risk but conversely results in a significant increase in heart failure risk. Different medications have different risk: benefit ratios in diabetic patients with heart failure; therefore, the heart failure team must judge the required intensity of glycaemic control, the type and dose of glucose lowering agents and any change in glucose-lowering therapy, according to the clinical conditions present.

Despite the availability of new drugs and devices, the treatment of cardiovascular disease remains suboptimal. Single-pill combination therapy offers a number of potential advantages. It can combine different classes of drugs to increase efficacy while mitigating the risks of treatment-related adverse events, reduce pill burden, lower medical cost, and improve patient adherence. Furthermore, in hypertension, single pill combinations include standard to lower doses of each drug than would be necessary to achieve goals with monotherapy, which may explain their better tolerability compared with higher dose monotherapy. Combination therapy is now established in the treatment of hypertension. In ischaemic heart disease, the concept of a preventative polypill has been studied, but its benefits have not been established conclusively. However, the combination of ivabradine and beta-blockers has proven efficacy in patients with stable angina pectoris. This combination has also demonstrated benefits in patients with chronic heart failure.

Cardiovascular imaging is key for the assessment of patients with heart failure. Today, cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging plays an established role in the assessment of patients with suspected and confirmed heart failure syndromes, in particular identifying aetiology. Its role in informing prognosis and guiding decisions around therapy are evolving. Key strengths include its accuracy; reproducibility; unrestricted field of view; lack of radiation; multiple abilities to characterise myocardial tissue, thrombus and scar; as well as unparalleled assessment of left and right ventricular volumes. T2* has an established role in the assessment and follow-up of iron overload cardiomyopathy and a role for T1 in specific therapies for cardiac amyloid and Anderson-Fabry disease is emerging.

Cognitive decline is a prevalent condition and independent prognostic marker of unfavourable outcomes in patients with heart failure. The highest prevalence, up to 80 %, is reported in patients hospitalised due to acute decompensation. Numerous factors contribute to cognitive dysfunction in heart failure patients, with hypertension, atrial fibrillation, stroke and impaired haemodynamics being the most relevant. Cerebral hypoperfusion, disruption of blood-brain barrier, oxidative damage and brain-derived cytokines are pathogenic links between heart failure and alteration of cognitive functioning. White matter hyperintensities, lacunar infarcts and generalised volume loss are common features revealed by neuroimaging. Typically affected cognitive domains are presented. Assessment of cognitive functioning, even by simple screening tests, should be part of routine clinical examination of heart failure patients.

Despite the burden of heart failure (HF) with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), its pathophysiological mechanisms remain controversial and are likely to be multifactorial. Indeed, it has been suggested that HFpEF may represent "a forest of a variety of trees", because of heterogeneity in pathophysiological mechanisms involved and phenotypic expression of the disease. A better understanding of HFpEF is crucial for the development of appropriate therapeutic targets. Recent studies on HFpEF have highlighted its particular haemodynamic features, and haemodynamic derangements are critical to both early and advanced stages of the disease. By definition, haemodynamic properties are determined by the result of the dynamic interchange between the heart, vasculature, and autonomic nervous system, which regulate the circulation of blood. Importantly, it has been shown that both intrinsic and extrinsic factors are implicated in the haemodynamic impairments typical of HFpEF patients. Thus, understanding of HFpEF haemodynamics requires consideration of the interplay between both cardiac and non-cardiac factors.

Physicians working in Europe and the United States should suspect Chagas heart failure in every patient coming from Latin America with chronic heart failure. Diagnosis should be confirmed by positive serology. Right bundle branch block and left anterior fascicular block on 12-lead electrocardiogram, enlarged cardiac silhouette with no pulmonary congestion on chest X-ray and left ventricular apical aneurysm on echocardiography are the distinctive features of this condition. The clinical course is poorer than that of non-Chagas heart failure; however, medical treatment is similar. Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators are useful in the primary and secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death. Cardiac resynchronisation therapy can be given to patients on optimal medical therapy and with lengthened QRS complex. Heart transplantation is the treatment of choice for patients with end-stage Chagas heart failure.

Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome (TRPS) is the collective name of three rare congenital conditions characterised by craniofacial and skeletal abnormalities. The three known types of TRPS have different modalities of genetic transmission: namely, TRPS I and III are inherited as an autosomal dominant disease, while the cases of TRPS II are essentially sporadic. The diagnosis of the different types of TRPS is based on clinical and radiological findings, eventually integrated by genetic analysis, particularly useful in some cases with the non-classical clinical presentation. Alopecia and structural abnormalities of the nose and the hands should be considered as clinical hallmarks, whereas endocrine disorders, renal alterations, ureteral reflux, heart pathology and bone dysplasia have been documented, in the setting of a multisystem involvement.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1186/s13017-016-0089-y.].

The post-natal heart adapts to stress and overload through hypertrophic growth, a process that may be pathologic or beneficial (physiologic hypertrophy). Physiologic hypertrophy improves cardiac performance in both healthy and diseased individuals, yet the mechanisms that propagate this favorable adaptation remain poorly defined. We identify the cytokine cardiotrophin 1 (CT1) as a factor capable of recapitulating the key features of physiologic growth of the heart including transient and reversible hypertrophy of the myocardium, and stimulation of cardiomyocyte-derived angiogenic signals leading to increased vascularity. The capacity of CT1 to induce physiologic hypertrophy originates from a CK2-mediated restraining of caspase activation, preventing the transition to unrestrained pathologic growth. Exogenous CT1 protein delivery attenuated pathology and restored contractile function in a severe model of right heart failure, suggesting a novel treatment option for this intractable cardiac disease.Cell Research advance online publication 8 August 2017; doi:10.1038/cr.2017.87.

Acute myocardial infarction (MI) is the leading cause of sudden death worldwide. MicroRNAs (miRs) is a novel class of regulators of cardiovascular diseases such as MI. This study aimed to explore the role of miR-98 in MI and its underlying mechanisms. We found that miR-98 was downregulated both in infarcted and ischemic myocardium of MI mice as well as H2O2-treated neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVCs). miR-98 overexpression remarkably increased cell viability and inhibited apoptosis of H2O2-treated NRVCs. Meanwhile, overexpression of miR-98 reversed H2O2-induced Bcl-2 downregulation and Bax elevation and significantly reduced JC-1 monomeric cells. Meanwhile, miR-98 overexpression attenuated the upregulation of Fas and caspase-3 in H2O2-treated cardiomyocytes at the mRNA and protein levels. Dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that miR-98 directly targeted to Fas 3'-UTR. Furthermore, MI mice injected with miR-98-agomir had a significant reduction of apoptotic cells, the serum LDH levels, myocardial caspase-3 activity, Fas and caspase-3 expression in heart tissues. Administration of miR-98-agomir also showed decreased infarct size and improved cardiac function. Collectively, miR-98 is downregulated in the MI heart and NRVCs in response to H2O2 stress, and miR-98 overexpression protects cardiomyocytes against apoptosis. Anti-apoptotic effects of miR-98 are associated with regulation of Fas/Caspase-3 apoptotic signal pathway.

We present a novel, non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique to assess real-time dynamic vasomodulation of the microvascular bed. Unlike existing perfusion imaging techniques, our method is sensitive only to blood volume and not flow velocity. Using graded gas challenges and a long-life, blood-pool T 1-reducing agent gadofosveset, we can sensitively assess microvascular volume response in the liver, kidney cortex, and paraspinal muscle to vasoactive stimuli (i.e. hypercapnia, hypoxia, and hypercapnic hypoxia). Healthy adult rats were imaged on a 3 Tesla scanner and cycled through 10-minute gas intervals to elicit vasoconstriction followed by vasodilatation. Quantitative T 1 relaxation time mapping was performed dynamically; heart rate and blood oxygen saturation were continuously monitored. Laser Doppler perfusion measurements confirmed MRI findings: dynamic changes in T 1 corresponded with perfusion changes to graded gas challenges. Our new technique uncovered differential microvascular response to gas stimuli in different organs: for example, mild hypercapnia vasodilates the kidney cortex but constricts muscle vasculature. Finally, we present a gas challenge protocol that produces a consistent vasoactive response and can be used to assess vasomodulatory capacity. Our imaging approach to monitor real-time vasomodulation may be extended to other imaging modalities and is valuable for investigating diseases where microvascular health is compromised.

A previously healthy 65-year-old woman presented with progressive symptoms of heart failure. Low-voltage ECG and findings on echocardiography were concerning for infiltrative cardiomyopathy. Cardiac MRI showed biventricular late gadolinium enhancement, and endomyocardial biopsy confirmed monoclonal immunoglobulin light-chain (AL) amyloidosis. Bortezomib-based chemotherapy was initiated, but the patient continued to clinically deteriorate. She required hospital readmission after resuscitated out-of-hospital cardiac arrest attributed to progressive conduction disease, and a permanent pacemaker was implanted. Chest CT angiography showed a small subsegmental pulmonary embolism (PE), but anticoagulation was withheld as her lower extremity Doppler was negative. One month later, another pulseless electrical arrest occurred, due to massive PE. Thereafter, she had refractory class IV congestive heart failure with severe right ventricular dysfunction, and was deemed unsuitable for stem-cell or heart transplantation. This case highlights the predilection for thromboembolism in AL cardiac amyloidosis.

Precise Ca cycling through the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), a Ca storage organelle, is critical for proper cardiac muscle function. This cycling initially involves SR release of Ca via the ryanodine receptor, which is regulated by its interacting proteins junctin and triadin. The sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca ATPase (SERCA) pump then refills SR Ca stores. Histidine-rich Ca-binding protein (HRC) resides in the lumen of the SR, where it contributes to the regulation of Ca cycling by protecting stressed or failing hearts. The common Ser96Ala human genetic variant of HRC strongly correlates with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. However, the underlying molecular pathways of this disease remain undefined. Here, we demonstrate that family with sequence similarity 20C (Fam20C), a recently characterized protein kinase in the secretory pathway, phosphorylates HRC on Ser96. HRC Ser96 phosphorylation was confirmed in cells and human hearts. Furthermore, a Ser96Asp HRC variant, which mimics constitutive phosphorylation of Ser96, diminished delayed aftercontractions in HRC null cardiac myocytes. This HRC phosphomimetic variant was also able to rescue the aftercontractions elicited by the Ser96Ala variant, demonstrating that phosphorylation of Ser96 is critical for the cardioprotective function of HRC. Phosphorylation of HRC on Ser96 regulated the interactions of HRC with both triadin and SERCA2a, suggesting a unique mechanism for regulation of SR Ca homeostasis. This demonstration of the role of Fam20C-dependent phosphorylation in heart disease will open new avenues for potential therapeutic approaches against arrhythmias.

Relaxation characteristics and Ca(2+) homeostasis have not been studied in isolated myocardium from patients with hypertensive heart disease (HHD) and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Prolonged myocardial relaxation is believed to play an important role in the pathophysiology of these conditions. In this study, we evaluated relaxation parameters, myocardial calcium (Ca(2+)), and sodium (Na(+)) handling, as well as ion transporter expression and tested the effect of Na(+)-influx inhibitors on relaxation in isolated myocardium from patients with HHD and HFpEF.

Patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction have impaired health-related quality of life (HRQL) with variable responses to therapies that target mortality and heart failure hospitalizations. In PARADIGM-HF trial (Prospective Comparison of ARNI [Angiotensin Receptor-Neprilysin Inhibitor] With ACEI [Angiotensin-Converting-Enzyme Inhibitor] to Determine Impact on Global Mortality and Morbidity in Heart Failure), sacubitril/valsartan reduced morbidity and mortality compared with enalapril. Another major treatment goal is to improve HRQL. Given improvements in mortality with sacubitril/valsartan, this analysis provides comprehensive assessment of impact of therapy on HRQL in survivors only.

In this nationwide study, we investigated age-specific and sex-specific trends in sex differences in survival after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), including deaths from coronary heart disease (CHD) that occurred outside hospital.

It is unknown whether the astronaut occupation or exposure to microgravity influences the risk of long-term cardiovascular disease (CVD). This study explored the effects of being a career National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) astronaut on the risk for clinical CVD end points.

Physical activity is associated with reduced cardiovascular disease risk, mainly through effects on atherosclerosis. Aortic stiffness may be an alternative mechanism. We examined whether patterns of physical activity and sedentary behavior are associated with rate of aortic stiffening.

The mechanisms and relevance of impaired glucose homeostasis in advanced heart failure (HF) are poorly understood. The study goals were to examine glucose regulation, pancreatic endocrine function, and metabolic factors related to prognosis in patients with nondiabetic advanced HF.

Detection of preclinical cardiac dysfunction and prognosis of left ventricular heart failure (HF) would allow targeted intervention, and appears to be the most promising approach in its management. Novel biomarker panels may support this approach and provide new insights into the pathophysiology.

Hypertension represents a major cardiovascular risk factor. The pathophysiology of increased blood pressure (BP) is not yet completely understood. Transcriptome profiling offers possibilities to uncover genetics effects on BP. Based on 2 populations including 2549 individuals, a meta-analyses of monocytic transcriptome-wide profiles were performed to identify transcripts associated with BP. Replication was performed in 2 independent studies of whole-blood transcriptome data including 1990 individuals. For identified candidate genes, a direct link between long-term changes in BP and gene expression over time and by treatment with BP-lowering therapy was assessed. The predictive value of protein levels encoded by candidate genes for subsequent cardiovascular disease was investigated. Eight transcripts (CRIP1, MYADM, TIPARP, TSC22D3, CEBPA, F12, LMNA, and TPPP3) were identified jointly accounting for up to 13% (95% confidence interval, 8.7-16.2) of BP variability. Changes in CRIP1, MYADM, TIPARP, LMNA, TSC22D3, CEBPA, and TPPP3 expression associated with BP changes-among these, CRIP1 gene expression was additionally correlated to measures of cardiac hypertrophy. Assessment of circulating CRIP1 (cystein-rich protein 1) levels as biomarkers showed a strong association with increased risk for incident stroke (hazard ratio, 1.06; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.09; P=5.0×10(-5)). Our comprehensive analysis of global gene expression highlights 8 novel transcripts significantly associated with BP, providing a link between gene expression and BP. Translational approaches further established evidence for the potential use of CRIP1 as emerging disease-related biomarker.

Human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) encodes the pore-forming subunit of the rapidly activating delayed rectifier potassium current (IKr) potassium channel, which is important for cardiac repolarization. Impairment of hERG function is the primary cause of acquired long QT syndrome, which predisposes individuals to cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. Patients with hypoxia due to conditions such as cardiac ischemia or obstructive sleep apnea display increased incidence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. We sought to understand the mechanisms that underlie hypoxia-associated cardiac arrhythmias. Using cell biology and electrophysiologic techniques, we found that hypoxic culture of hERG-expressing human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells and neonatal rat cardiomyocytes reduced hERG current/IKr and mature ERG channel expression with a concomitant increase in calpain expression. Calpain was actively released into the extracellular milieu and degraded cell-surface hERG. In contrast to hERG, the ether-a-go-go (EAG) channel was not reduced by hypoxic culture. By making chimeric channels between hERG and EAG, we identified that hypoxia-induced calpain degraded hERG by targeting its extracellular S5-pore linker. The scorpion toxin BeKm-1, which is known to selectively bind to the S5-pore linker of hERG, prevented hypoxia-induced hERG reduction. Our data provide novel information about hypoxia-mediated hERG dysfunction and may have biological and clinical implications in hypoxia-associated diseases.-Lamothe, S. M., Song, W., Guo, J., Li, W., Yang, T., Baranchuk, A., Graham, C. H., Zhang, S. Hypoxia reduces mature hERG channels through calpain up-regulation.

Meta-analyses are becoming increasingly popular, especially in the fields of cardiovascular disease prevention and treatment. They are often considered to be a reliable source of evidence for making healthcare decisions. Unfortunately, problems among meta-analyses such as the misapplication and misinterpretation of statistical methods and tests are long-standing and widespread. The purposes of this statement are to review key steps in the development of a meta-analysis and to provide recommendations that will be useful for carrying out meta-analyses and for readers and journal editors, who must interpret the findings and gauge methodological quality. To make the statement practical and accessible, detailed descriptions of statistical methods have been omitted. Based on a survey of cardiovascular meta-analyses, published literature on methodology, expert consultation, and consensus among the writing group, key recommendations are provided. Recommendations reinforce several current practices, including protocol registration; comprehensive search strategies; methods for data extraction and abstraction; methods for identifying, measuring, and dealing with heterogeneity; and statistical methods for pooling results. Other practices should be discontinued, including the use of levels of evidence and evidence hierarchies to gauge the value and impact of different study designs (including meta-analyses) and the use of structured tools to assess the quality of studies to be included in a meta-analysis. We also recommend choosing a pooling model for conventional meta-analyses (fixed effect or random effects) on the basis of clinical and methodological similarities among studies to be included, rather than the results of a test for statistical heterogeneity.

Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC) is a syndrome characterized by transient regional systolic dysfunction of the left ventricle (LV). However, far fewer reports focused on the prevalence of left ventricular diastolic function (DF) and its impact on an adverse prognosis in TTC.

Over the last two decades, the rate of oophorectomy at the time of hysterectomy in the U.S. has consistently been between 40 and 50%. A decline in hormone use has been observed since the release of the principle results of the Women's Health Initiative. Oophorectomy appears to be associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease, as well as deleterious effects on overall mortality, cognitive functioning, and sexual functioning. Estrogen deficiency from surgical menopause is associated with bone mineral density loss and increased fracture risk. While hormone therapy may mitigate these effects, at no age does there appear to be a survival benefit associated with oophorectomy. Reduction of ovarian cancer risk may be accomplished with salpingectomy at the time of hysterectomy.

The aim of this study was to explore perinatal and early postnatal outcomes in fetuses with prenatally diagnosed d-transposition of the great arteries and impacts of standardised prenatal consultation.

Pregnancy and pregnancy loss may be linked to cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, the evidence is still inconsistent, especially in East Asians, whose reproductive patterns differ importantly from those in the West. We examined the associations of pregnancy, miscarriage, induced abortion, and stillbirth with CVD incidence among Chinese women.

Regional variability of longitudinal strain (LS) has been previously described with echocardiography in patients with cardiac amyloidosis (CA), however, the reason for this variability is not completely evident. We sought to describe regional patterns in LS using feature-tracking software applied to cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) cine images in patients with CA, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), and Anderson-Fabry's disease (AFD) and to relate these patterns to the distribution of late gadolinium enhancement (LGE).

The Care-Related Quality of Life survey for Chronic Heart Failure (CaReQoL CHF) is a newly developed patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) that measures care-related quality of life in patients diagnosed with chronic heart failure. This study describes the psychometric properties of the questionnaire and its relationship with disease severity and global rating of quality of care.

Prematurity is associated with adverse outcomes. However, there are less data regarding long-term outcomes of twins, based on gestational age at delivery. Our objective was to identify the association between gestational age at delivery and long-term outcomes in twins.

BACKGROUND In recent years, genetic factors have attracted research interest as important predisposing factors for cardiovascular susceptibility. This study aimed to investigate the influences of dual-dose clopidogrel, clopidogrel combined with tongxinluo, and ticagrelor on the platelet activity and MACE events of patients with CYP2C19*2 gene function deficiency and poor clopidogrel response after PCI. MATERIAL AND METHODS We selected 458 patients with coronary heart disease undergoing PCI, and the genotype of CYP2C19*2 was detected by TaqMan real-time PCR. We finally enrolled 212 patients and divided them into 4 groups: a standard anti-platelet group of 46 patients, a clopidogrel double-dose group of 50 cases, a clopidogrel combined with tongxinluo group of 59 cases, and a ticagrelor group of 57. The platelet inhibition rate was detected by TEG. We analyzed and compared differences in platelet activity and the occurrence of MACE events in these 4 groups at different follow-up times. RESULTS The results showed that inhibition of platelet aggregation was better in the double-dose clopidogrel group, the clopidogrel combined with tongxinluo group, and the ticagrelor group than in the regular-dose clopidogrel group, and ticagrelor was the best. We also found that the total incidence of MACE was much lower in the double-dose clopidogrel group, the clopidogrel combined with tongxinluo group, and the ticagrelor group, while the incidence of hemorrhage in the ticagrelor group was higher. CONCLUSIONS Adjusting the dose or combining with other drugs improves the efficacy of anti-platelet therapy and reduces the incidence of ischemic events after PCI.

Severe asthma is typically characterized by chronic airway inflammation that is refractory to corticosteroids and associated with excess morbidity. Patients were recruited into the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute-sponsored Severe Asthma Research Program and comprehensively phenotyped by bronchoscopy. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. Compared with healthy individuals (n = 21), patients with asthma (n = 53) had fewer BAL natural killer (NK) cells. Patients with severe asthma (n = 29) had a marked increase in the ratios of CD4(+) T cells to NK cells and neutrophils to NK cells. BAL NK cells in severe asthma were skewed toward the cytotoxic CD56(dim) subset, with significantly increased BAL fluid levels of the cytotoxic mediator granzyme A. The numbers of BAL CD56(dim) NK cells and CCR6(-)CCR4(-) T helper 1-enriched CD4(+) T cells correlated inversely with lung function [forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) % predicted] in asthma. Relative to cells from healthy controls, peripheral blood NK cells from asthmatic patients had impaired killing of K562 myeloid target cells despite releasing more cytotoxic mediators. Ex vivo exposure to dexamethasone markedly decreased blood NK cell lysis of target cells and cytotoxic mediator release. NK cells expressed airway lipoxin A4/formyl peptide receptor 2 receptors, and in contrast to dexamethasone, lipoxin A4-exposed NK cells had preserved functional responses. Together, our findings indicate that the immunology of the severe asthma airway is characterized by decreased NK cell cytotoxicity with increased numbers of target leukocytes, which is exacerbated by corticosteroids that further disable NK cell function. These failed resolution mechanisms likely contribute to persistent airway inflammation in severe asthma.

Community-acquired Staphylococcus aureus infections often present as serious skin infections in otherwise healthy individuals and have become a worldwide epidemic problem fueled by the emergence of strains with antibiotic resistance, such as methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA). The cytokine thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is highly expressed in the skin and in other barrier surfaces and plays a deleterious role by promoting T helper cell type 2 (TH2) responses during allergic diseases; however, its role in host defense against bacterial infections has not been well elucidated. We describe a previously unrecognized non-TH2 role for TSLP in enhancing neutrophil killing of MRSA during an in vivo skin infection. Specifically, we demonstrate that TSLP acts directly on both mouse and human neutrophils to augment control of MRSA. Additionally, we show that TSLP also enhances killing of Streptococcus pyogenes, another clinically important cause of human skin infections. Unexpectedly, TSLP mechanistically mediates its antibacterial effect by directly engaging the complement C5 system to modulate production of reactive oxygen species by neutrophils. Thus, TSLP increases MRSA killing in a neutrophil- and complement-dependent manner, revealing a key connection between TSLP and the innate complement system, with potentially important therapeutic implications for control of MRSA infection.

Transplantation of allogeneic organs and tissues represents a lifesaving procedure for a variety of patients affected with end-stage diseases. Although current immunosuppressive therapy prevents early acute rejection, it is associated with nephrotoxicity and increased risks for infection and neoplasia. This stresses the need for selective immune-based therapies relying on manipulation of lymphocyte recognition of donor antigens. The passenger leukocyte theory states that allograft rejection is initiated by recipient T cells recognizing donor major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules displayed on graft leukocytes migrating to the host's lymphoid organs. We revisited this concept in mice transplanted with allogeneic skin, heart, or islet grafts using imaging flow cytometry. We observed no donor cells in the lymph nodes and spleen of skin-grafted mice, but we found high numbers of recipient cells displaying allogeneic MHC molecules (cross-dressed) acquired from donor microvesicles (exosomes). After heart or islet transplantation, we observed few donor leukocytes (100 per million) but large numbers of recipient cells cross-dressed with donor MHC (>90,000 per million). Last, we showed that purified allogeneic exosomes induced proinflammatory alloimmune responses by T cells in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, these results suggest that recipient antigen-presenting cells cross-dressed with donor MHC rather than passenger leukocytes trigger T cell responses after allotransplantation.

First, to conduct a detailed exploration of the prospective relations between four commonly used anthropometric measures with incident diabetes and to examine their consistency across different population subgroups. Second, to compare the ability of each of the measures to predict five-year risk of diabetes.

Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a newly discovered type of RNAs generated by back-splicing of precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA) and found in many species. They are, expressed in a tissue-specific manner and fulfill regulatory activities in many biological processes. Recent research revealed that circRNAs play critical roles in the development and pathologies of the cardiovascular system. Some of these circRNAs showed aberrant expression and regulatory activities during heart disease including heart failure and cardiac infarction and hypertrophy. These findings suggest that circRNAs might be a suitable target for the treatment and prevention of heart disease. In this review, we summarize the latest research on the biogenesis and functions of circRNAs with emphasis on the regulatory roles of circRNAs in the development and pathologies of the cardiovascular system. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

In recent decades, survival of children with complex congenital heart disease has improved considerably. Specifically, children with a variety of congenital heart defects resulting in 'single ventricle' physiology can now undergo palliative surgery that allows survival beyond the neonatal period, and in many cases into adulthood, despite having a single functional ventricular pumping chamber supplying both the pulmonary and systemic circulation. Our growing understanding of the functionally univentricular heart has resulted in freedom from Fontan failure of >50% at 25 years post-Fontan. Yet there is still a fair amount of knowledge to be gained, specifically as it relates to the pulmonary circulation in this group of patients. Knowledge gaps relate not only to the pulmonary circulation after Fontan operation, but also at each stage of the single ventricle surgical palliation, including the native physiology prior to any intervention. The pulmonary circulation is affected by multiple issues related to the single ventricle, including specific details of the anatomy unique to each patient, any intervention(s) undertaken, and potential complications such as aortopulmonary collaterals, protein losing enteropathy, plastic bronchitis, venovenous collaterals, pulmonary arteriovenous fistulae, ventricular dysfunction, pulmonary venous stenosis, and more. This chapter will review the current knowledge with regard to the pulmonary circulation in the single ventricle patient, primarily after the Fontan operation. Additionally, it is our hope to help the practitioner assess the pulmonary circulation in the single ventricle patient; we will also discuss the evidence behind and approach to treatment strategies in order to optimize the pulmonary circulation in this complex group of patients.

The sharp increase of the aging population has raised the pressure on the current limited medical resources in China. To better allocate resources, a more accurate prediction on medical service demand is very urgently needed. This study aims to improve the prediction on medical services demand in China. To achieve this aim, the study combines Taylor Approximation into the Grey Markov Chain model, and develops a new model named Taylor-Markov Chain GM (1,1) (T-MCGM (1,1)). The new model has been tested by adopting the historical data, which includes the medical service on treatment of diabetes, heart disease, and cerebrovascular disease from 1997 to 2015 in China. The model provides a predication on medical service demand of these three types of disease up to 2022. The results reveal an enormous growth of urban medical service demand in the future. The findings provide practical implications for the Health Administrative Department to allocate medical resources, and help hospitals to manage investments on medical facilities.

After the discovery that trans fat increases the risk of coronary heart disease, trans fat content of foods have considerably changed. The aim of this study was to systematically review available data on intakes of trans fat and its dietary sources in general populations worldwide. Data from national dietary surveys and population studies published from 1995 onward were searched via Scopus and websites of national public health institutes. Relevant data from 29 countries were identified. The most up to date estimates of total trans fat intake ranged from 0.3 to 4.2 percent of total energy intake (En%) across countries. Seven countries had trans fat intakes higher than the World Health Organization recommendation of 1 En%. In 16 out of 21 countries with data on dietary sources, intakes of trans fat from animal sources were higher than that from industrial sources. Time trend data from 20 countries showed substantial declines in industrial trans fat intake since 1995. In conclusion, nowadays, in the majority of countries for which data are available, average trans fat intake is lower than the recommended maximum intake of 1 En%, with intakes from animal sources being higher than from industrial sources. In the past 20 years, substantial reductions in industrial trans fat have been achieved in many countries.

Thiazide diuretics are among the most widely used treatments for hypertension, but thiazide-induced hyponatremia (TIH), a clinically significant adverse effect, is poorly understood. Here, we have studied the phenotypic and genetic characteristics of patients hospitalized with TIH. In a cohort of 109 TIH patients, those with severe TIH displayed an extended phenotype of intravascular volume expansion, increased free water reabsorption, urinary prostaglandin E2 excretion, and reduced excretion of serum chloride, magnesium, zinc, and antidiuretic hormone. GWAS in a separate cohort of 48 TIH patients and 2,922 controls from the 1958 British birth cohort identified an additional 14 regions associated with TIH. We identified a suggestive association with a variant in SLCO2A1, which encodes a prostaglandin transporter in the distal nephron. Resequencing of SLCO2A1 revealed a nonsynonymous variant, rs34550074 (p.A396T), and association with this SNP was replicated in a second cohort of TIH cases. TIH patients with the p.A396T variant demonstrated increased urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 and metabolites. Moreover, the SLCO2A1 phospho-mimic p.A396E showed loss of transporter function in vitro. These findings indicate that the phenotype of TIH involves a more extensive metabolic derangement than previously recognized. We propose one mechanism underlying TIH development in a subgroup of patients in which SLCO2A1 regulation is altered.

We describe the cardiovascular risk factors, clinical presentation, and prognosis in a comparative study of patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) from the Cohorte des Patients ARTériopathes (COPART) cohort, which includes patients hospitalized for PAD in France. Among the 2514 patients included in the cohort, 189 had PAD before or at the age of 50 years and 2325 had it after. Young patients with PAD had diabetes less frequently (34% vs 46%, P < .001), were more frequent active smokers (58% vs 23%, P < 0.001), had lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C; 41 ± 14 vs 44 ± 15 mg/dL, P = .026), and had a less frequent family and personal history of coronary heart disease. In a subset of 59 patients whose lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) was measured, the Lp(a) levels were higher in the young patients than in the older ones (89.7 mg/dL [9.7-151.3] vs 19.9 mg/dL [3.0-207.9], P = .004). Survival and amputation-free survival was 2.2 times higher (1.5-3.2, P < .001) in the young after 1 year. The onset of PAD before 50 years was associated with active smoking, low HDL-C, high Lp(a), and lower mortality.

Patients with complex congenital heart disease may need to be converted to a Fontan circulation with systemic venous return surgically connected to the pulmonary circulation. These patients frequently form aortopulmonary collaterals (APC), that is arterial inflows to the pulmonary artery vascular tree. The aim of this study was to develop a method to calculate the effect of APC on the pulmonary flow distribution based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements and computational fluid dynamics simulations in order to enable prediction of interventional outcomes in Fontan patients.

To describe the clinical and ultrasound findings in patients with mucinous ovarian tumors.

Elevated serum uric acid (UA) is known to be associated with stroke. However, there is little information on the association between serum UA levels and cerebral microbleed (CMB), a precursor of stroke. Therefore, we investigated the association between UA and CMB in a general population taking into consideration sex-related differences.

The focus of this edition of Clinical Pharmacolgoy & Therapeutics (CPT) is on drugs and renal function and will not include a detailed discussion of kidney disease and its treatment. It is well recognized that drugs affect the kidneys in different ways, while kidney disease impacts drug metabolism and response. It is impossible to underestimate the value of the kidneys to man in health and disease, from regulation of fluid and electrolyte balance to participating in drug metabolism and transport. Additionally, the kidneys serve as targets for drugs used to treat cardiovascular (CV) diseases including hypertension and heart failure, metabolic diseases such as diabetes mellitus and obesity, chronic kidney disease (CKD), as well as playing a role in the regulation of several hormones. Kidney damage may be distinguished from changes in kidney function using biomarkers, as discussed in some detail in this issue.

During the past decade, several types of stem cells have been investigated as promising therapeutic agents for cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). Among them, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were the most investigated stem cell population. Hundreds of clinical trials later, results remain disappointing and far from the revolutionary improvements expected for heart function. In the present review, we address strategies under investigation to boost MSC therapy for CVDs. Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are also intended to reach clinical applications for CVDs, but here we suggest that, in the short term, the major impact of PSCs in the cardiovascular field might be at the bench and not the bedside.

Snakehead vesiculovirus (SHVV) has caused mass mortality to cultured snakehead fish in China, resulting in enormous economic losses in snakehead fish culture. In this report, the whole genome of SHVV was sequenced. Interestingly, it shared more than 94% nucleotide sequence identity with Monopterus albus rhabdovirus (MoARV), which has caused great economic loss to cultured rice field eel (Monopterus albus). Therefore, the concern of cross-species infection of these viruses prompted us to investigate the susceptibility of rice field eel to SHVV infection. The results showed that rice field eel was susceptible to SHVV in both intracoelomical injection and immersion routes. Severe hemorrhage was observed on the skin and visceral organs of SHVV-infected rice field eels. Histopathological examination showed vacuoles in the tissues of infected liver, kidney and heart. Viral RNA or protein was detected in the tissues of infected fish by reverse transcription polymerization chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization (ISH), or immunohistochemistry assay (IHC). Investigation of the epidemic of vesiculovirus in rice field eel as well as other co-cultured fish is invaluable for the prevention of vesiculovirus infection.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) encompasse a range of conditions extending from congenital heart disease to acute coronary syndrome most of which are heterogenous in nature and some of them are multiple genetic loci. However, the pathogenesis of most CVDs remains incompletely understood. The advance in genome-editing technologies, an engineering process of DNA sequences at precise genomic locations, has enabled a new paradigm that human genome can be precisely modified to achieve a therapeutic effect. Genome-editing includes the correction of genetic variants that cause disease, the addition of therapeutic genes to specific sites in the genomic locations, and the removal of deleterious genes or genome sequences. Site-specific genome engineering can be used nucleases (known as molecular scissors) include zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), and the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated 9 (Cas9) systems to provide remarkable opportunities for developing novel therapies in cardiovascular clinical care. Here we discuss genetic polymorphisms and mechanistic insights in CVDs with an emphasis on the impact of genome-editing technologies. The current challenges and future prospects for genome-editing technologies in cardiovascular medicine are also discussed.

Pre-existing chronic kidney disease (CKD) portends adverse outcomes following heart valve surgery. However, only limited and conflicting evidence is available on the impact of CKD on outcomes following transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). The objective of this review was to evaluate the effect of pre-existing CKD on TAVR outcomes.

Hemodynamics during dynamic exercise is finely regulated by some neural mechanisms. One of these mechanisms is the metabolic part of the exercise pressor reflex, i.e. the muscle metaboreflex. Hemodynamic response during the metaboreflex is characterised by the recruitment of the reserves in cardiac inotropism, pre-load, after-load and chronotropism. If one of these reserves is exhausted, then the cardiovascular response is achieved by recruiting one of the other reserves, thereby indicating a remarkable plasticity of the control of circulation. In this review, the effects of a number of cardiovascular diseases - such as heart failure, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, hypertension, type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity and metabolic syndrome - on hemodynamics during the metaboreflex are reviewed.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of mortality in the world and atherosclerosis is the main cause of CHD. Traditional Chinese medicines have been applied in the treatment of CHD for a very long time. In the recent years, clinical trials have been carried out to evaluate the efficacies of Chinese medicine. Meanwhile, extensive studies have also been carried out to explore the underlying pharmacological mechanisms of Chinese medicine. In this review, we will summarize the commonly prescribed Chinese medicine and patent Chinese drugs in treating patients with atherosclerotic CHD and review published clinical trials of Chinese medicine in treating CHD. The anti-atherosclerosis mechanism of Chinese medicine will also be reviewed. Finally, challenges and opportunities facing application of Chinese medicine in the treatment of CHD will be presented.

Renal artery stenosis (RAS) has a high prevalence in older patients, especially in the context of general atherosclerosis. It is frequently associated with resistant hypertension and impaired renal function and their attendant consequences. The issue whether revascularization via percutaneous renal angioplasty and stenting (PRA/S) can benefit these patients remains unsettled.

It is not uncommon to be treating people with addiction who also have significant other health problems, including heart, renal or liver failure, diabetes and vascular disease. These conditions require regular medications to be taken. This can be a problem for people living with addiction and difficult social circumstances affecting compliance, among other issues. Our perspective provides a summary of general pharmacological factors affecting medicine taking in people with addiction problems, to provide a guide for hospital doctors in this setting.

The aim of this research was to assess the performance of a modified bovine stent valve implanted transventricularly in the pulmonary position in sheep with a 3-month follow-up period.

Heart valve disease is a major health burden, treated by either valve repair or valve replacement, depending on the affected valve. Nearly 300,000 valve replacements are performed worldwide per year. Valve replacement is lifesaving, but not without complications. The in situ tissue-engineered heart valve is a promising alternative to current treatments, but the translation of this novel technology to the clinic still faces several challenges. These challenges originate from the variety encountered in the patient population, the conversion of an implant into a living tissue, the highly mechanical nature of the heart valve, the complex homeostatic tissue that has to be reached at the end stage of the regenerating heart valve, and all the biomaterial properties that can be controlled to obtain this tissue. Many of these challenges are multidimensional and multiscalar, and both the macroscopic properties of the complete heart valve and the microscopic properties of the patient's cells interacting with the materials have to be optimal. Using newly developed in vitro models, or bioreactors, where variables of interest can be controlled tightly and complex mixtures of cell populations similar to those encountered in the regenerating valve can be cultured, it is likely that the challenges can be overcome.

Recent decades have seen a growing recognition that the understanding of sex differences in cardiovascular disease (CVD) is vital to optimal diagnosis and management, particularly of women (Mosca et al. Circulation 124:2145-54, 2011). There is simultaneously an increasing appreciation of the multifactorial nature of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in many patients, in whom disease may extend beyond the epicardial coronaries. While obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) remains underdiagnosed in women and still represents a major burden of disease, women also present with nonobstructive CAD more commonly than men (Patel et al. N Engl J Med 362:886-95, 2010). Indeed, microvascular dysfunction, coronary artery vasospasm, and coronary dissections contribute to a larger proportion of IHD in women than men (Bairey Merz et al. J Am Coll Cardiol 47:S21-9, 2006). Here, we review the symptom presentation of women with IHD and the noninvasive modalities used to risk stratify women with suspected IHD.

With the increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD), significant efforts have been directed toward developing novel diagnostics and biomarkers that can enhance AD detection and management. AD affects the cognition, behavior, function, and physiology of patients through mechanisms that are still being elucidated. Current AD diagnosis is contingent on evaluating which symptoms and signs a patient does or does not display. Concerns have been raised that AD diagnosis may be affected by how those measurements are analyzed. Unbiased means of diagnosing AD using computational algorithms that integrate multidisciplinary inputs, ranging from nanoscale biomarkers to cognitive assessments, and integrating both biochemical and physical changes may provide solutions to these limitations due to lack of understanding for the dynamic progress of the disease coupled with multiple symptoms in multiscale. We show that nanoscale physical properties of protein aggregates from the cerebral spinal fluid and blood of patients are altered during AD pathogenesis and that these properties can be used as a new class of "physical biomarkers." Using a computational algorithm, developed to integrate these biomarkers and cognitive assessments, we demonstrate an approach to impartially diagnose AD and predict its progression. Real-time diagnostic updates of progression could be made on the basis of the changes in the physical biomarkers and the cognitive assessment scores of patients over time. Additionally, the Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem was used to determine the minimum number of necessary patient checkups to effectively predict disease progression. This integrated computational approach can generate patient-specific, personalized signatures for AD diagnosis and prognosis.

The English NHS currently has a policy of providing Health Checks to all 40-74 year olds. Administered in primary care, they aim to identify patients at risk of a range of diseases, including diabetes and heart disease, and facilitate care. This study is the first to use observed data on the effectiveness of the Checks to consider whether they represent a cost-effective use of limited NHS resources.

This study was undertaken to estimate the incidence and burden of cerebral microhemorrhage (CM) in patients with heart disease who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), as detected on susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI), a magnetic resonance (MR) sequence that is highly sensitive to hemorrhagic products.

Mycotic aneurysm is a rare potentially life-threatening complication of infective endocarditis (IE). Little data is available on the management and outcomes of ruptured mycotic aneurysms with large intracerebral hematoma. Few cases have been described on the management of mycotic aneurysm in the presence of life-threatening hematoma and mass effect.

Cardio-oncology is a multidisciplinary field focusing on the management and prevention of cardiovascular complications in cancer patients and survivors. While the initial focus of this specialty was on heart failure associated with anthracycline use, novel anticancer agents are increasingly utilized and are associated with many other cardiotoxicities including hypertension, arrhythmias and vascular disease. Since its inception, the field has developed at a rapid pace with the establishment of programs at many major academic institutions and community practices. Given the complexities of this patient population, it is important for providers to possess knowledge of not only cardiovascular disease but also cancer subtypes and their specific therapeutics. Developing a cardio-oncology program at a stand-alone cancer center can present unique opportunities and challenges when compared to those affiliated with other institutions including resource allocation, cardiovascular testing availability and provider education. In this review, we present our experiences establishing the cardio-oncology program at Moffitt Cancer Center and provide guidance to those individuals interested in developing a program at a similar independent cancer institution.

To investigate whether there is a relationship between periodontitis and ischemic heart disease by estimation of total antioxidant status in saliva and serum.

Quercetin (QR) is a natural strong antioxidant of the plant origins. It is used for treating conditions of heart and blood vessels including "hardening of arteries" (atherosclerosis), high cholesterol, heart disease, circulation problems, preventing cancer, for treating chronic infections of the prostate, etc.

A 79-year-old woman was admitted with a left femoral neck fracture and she immediately developed circulatory shock. Echocardiography showed a markedly enlarged right ventricle (RV) with systolic ballooning of the mid-ventricular wall and preserved contractility of the apex. The left ventricular (LV) motion was normal. Multi-detector-row computed tomography showed severe congestion of the contrast media in the right atrium with no forward flow to RV, but no pulmonary embolism. She was successfully treated with percutaneous veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. This case presented with acute, profound, but reversible RV dysfunction triggered by acute stress in a manner similar to that seen in LV stress cardiomyopathy.

Abnormalities in energy metabolism and endothelial dysfunction contribute to signaling processes associated with atherogenesis. The goal of our study was to develop diagnostic tests based on endothelial functional markers and adiponectin to differentiate early stages of coronary lesions during atherogenesis. The cohort included male and female patients from 25 to 86 years of age. All subjects underwent coronary angiography and severity of coronary lesions was quantified by the Gensini score that assigns points depending on location and extent of the lesions. We have estimated associations between the Gensini score and some known primary and secondary diagnostic parameters and have found that the ratio of serum levels of adiponectin to endothelin strongly correlates with severity of coronary lesions and can be used for differentiation of male patients lacking coronary atherosclerosis (despite symptoms of ischemic heart disease) from patients that have severe coronary lesions. Predictive power of adiponectin to endothelin ratio did not depend on drug therapy.

Heart failure is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality for adults with congenital heart disease (ACHD). Many patients are ineligible for transplantation, and those who are eligible often face long wait times with high wait-list morbidity. Durable mechanical circulatory support (MCS) may be an option for many patients. This systematic review evaluates the published literature on the use of durable MCS in teenagers and adults with congenital heart disease.

Inconsistencies between gradients and aortic valve area are frequent in the echocardiographic evaluation of aortic stenosis (AS). Assessing AS severity is essential for the correct management of the disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether ejection dynamics, particularly acceleration time (AT) and the ratio of AT to ejection time (ET), could be diagnostic parameters in patients with AS.

In patients with type 2 diabetes and a high cardiovascular risk profile, the sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors empagliflozin and canagliflozin have been shown to lower cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Using real-world data from clinical practice, we aimed to compare cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in new users of SGLT2 inhibitors versus new users of other glucose-lowering drugs, in a population with a broad cardiovascular risk profile.

Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality after orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT). Little is known about the influence of aspirin on clinical expression of CAV.

Heart transplantation has been an option for children in Sweden since 1989. As our unit faced an increased rate of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder, the objective of the study was to identify possible risk factors.

Objective: To investigate the feasibility and diagnostic value of preoperative transthoracic echocardiography guided three dimensional printing model (TTE Guided 3DPM) on the assessment of structural heart disease (SHD). Methods: From February 2016 to October 2016, 44 patients underwent cardiac surgery in Tianjin Chest Hospital, forty-four patients were assessed preoperatively using TTE Guided 3DPM, including 25 males and 19 females, aged 3-75 years, with an average of (44±22) years. compared to conventional three dimensional transthoracic echocardiography (3D-TTE), and took direct intraoperative findings as "Golden Standard" simultaneously. There are twelve patients with SHD, including four cases with mitral prolapse, two cases with partial endocardial cushion defect, two cases with secondary atrial septal defect, two cases with rheumatic mitral stenosis, one case with tetralogy of Fallot, one case with ventricular septal defect (VSD), thirty-two patients without SHD were designed as negative control. Results: The sensitivity and specificity of TTE Guided 3DPM were greater than or equal to 3D-TTE, P value of McNemar test of 3D-TTE was greater than 0.05, the difference was not statistically significant, kappa=0.745, P<0.01, indicated that the results of 3DTTE and the gold standard were generally consistent.P value of McNemar test of TTE Guided 3DPM was greater than 0.05, the difference was not statistically significant, kappa=0.955, P<0.01, indicated that the results of TTE Guided 3DPM and gold standards were consistent. Compared with 3D-TTE and TTE Guided 3DPM, P value was greater than 0.05, the difference was not statistically significant, kappa=0.879, P<0.01, indicated that the results of 3D-TTE and TTE Guided 3DPM were consistent. TTE Guided 3DPM displayed the three-dimensional structure of SHD cardiac lesions clearly, which were consistent with intraoperative findings. Conclusion: TTE Guided 3DPM provides essential information for the preoperative evaluation and decision of SHD.

Epigenetics is defined as the heritable changes in gene expression patterns which are not directly encoded by modifications in the nucleotide DNA sequence of the genome, including higher order chromatin organization, DNA methylation, cytosine modifications, covalent histone tail modifications, and short non-coding RNA molecules. Recently, much attention has been paid to the role and the function of epigenetics and epimutations in the cellular and subcellular pathways and in the regulation of genes in the setting of both kidney and cardiovascular disease. Indeed, deregulation of histone alterations has been highlighted in a large spectrum of renal and cardiac disease, including chronic and acute renal injury, renal and cardiac fibrosis, cardiac hypertrophy and failure, kidney congenital anomalies, renal hypoxia, and diabetic renal complications. Nevertheless, the role of epigenetics in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of cardiorenal syndromes is currently underexplored. Given the significant clinical relevance of heart-kidney crosstalk, efforts in the research for new action mechanisms concurrently operating in both pathologies are thus of maximum interest. This review focuses on epigenetic mechanisms involved in heart and kidney disease, and their possible role in the setting of cardiorenal syndromes.

Despite recent efforts to reduce cardiovascular disease, it remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among women, particularly younger women. When compared to men, women have more inpatient complications, mortality, heart failure, and stroke following acute myocardial infarction (AMI) despite having less obstructive coronary artery disease. Moreover, women are less likely to have AMI from plaque rupture than men, and more likely to experience alternate etiologies of AMI including plaque erosion and spontaneous coronary artery dissection. Herein, we discuss current knowledge regarding women's unique experience of AMI, including demographics, presentation, etiologies, and acute and outpatient care.

Valvular heart disease in women of childbearing age poses an increased risk of adverse maternal and fetal outcomes, and management in pregnancy can be challenging. Ideally, patients with suspected valvular disease should have preconception counseling by a multidisciplinary team including cardiologists with expertise in pregnancy and a maternal-fetal medicine specialist. Preconception planning should include a cardiac assessment of maternal risk, determination of frequency of surveillance, and a cardiovascular management plan during delivery. Women with valvular heart disease should be followed closely by a cardiologist and monitored for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure and arrhythmias. In general, stenotic lesions may become more symptomatic in pregnancy, whereas regurgitant lesions are generally well tolerated. Left-sided valvular lesions have higher complication rates than right-sided lesions. For patients with asymptomatic valvular stenosis, medical management during pregnancy may include beta blockade and/or diuretics. Exercise stress testing prior to pregnancy in sedentary patients can be helpful to unmask symptoms and determine functional capacity. Patients with symptomatic, severe left-sided valvular obstruction have a high maternal risk of cardiovascular events during pregnancy, and percutaneous balloon valvuloplasty or surgery is recommended prior to pregnancy. The type of prosthetic valve (mechanical vs bioprosthetic) should be selected after a careful discussion with the patient. Invasive procedures are generally reserved for when medical management fails. The second trimester may be the optimal time for intervention as fetal organogenesis is complete and the cardiac positioning has not been affected by the gravid uterus.

All providers who care for reproductive-aged women with cardiac disease should assess these patients' desires and plans for pregnancy at every encounter. For those considering pregnancy, preconception counseling, often performed by a maternal-fetal medicine specialist, can help patients understand the potential implications of pregnancy on their health and estimate the risks of an adverse cardiac event prior to conceiving. There are cardiac conditions, such as pulmonary hypertension and aortic stenosis, in which pregnancy may be contraindicated given the high morbidity and mortality; there are tools available to help quantify a patient's risk. Furthermore, some cardiac lesions may be inherited, which may warrant parental testing or a discussion of strategies to reduce the risk of an affected child, such as the use of assisted reproductive technologies. Preconception counseling is also important to identify other maternal risk factors, such as obesity, hypertension, and tobacco use, which are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and develop a strategy to mitigate their potential risks, ideally before pregnancy. For women on medications for their heart disease or other comorbidities, a thorough review of these medications can potentially avoid an exposure to a teratogen during conception and pregnancy. Once pregnant, a patient's obstetrical provider and cardiologist should work together to outline a plan to monitor a patient's cardiac status as the normal physiologic changes of pregnancy, such as increased blood volume and cardiac output, may challenge a patient's functional status and increase the risk for an adverse outcome. Labor and delivery planning are essential to ensure patients with cardiac disease deliver at the appropriate hospital, equipped with the staff and resources to care for women with complex conditions. In summary, preconception counseling aims to stratify a patient's risk in pregnancy, inform patients of possible complications, and discuss strategies to best ensure a healthy mother and baby during pregnancy, labor, and delivery.

The study is an early phase of development of a decision support framework for people with Marfan syndrome who are anticipating prophylactic aortic root surgery. Implications of the timing and the nature of the operation chosen were previously elicited in focus groups. In this step, we explored the range of relative values placed by individuals on the implications of decisions made about surgery.

Rheumatic mitral stenosis (MS) is a progressive disease, and risk of death may persist despite relief of the obstruction. Net atrioventricular compliance (Cn) modulates the overall haemodynamic burden of the MS and may be useful in predicting cardiovascular death after percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty (PMV).

To present a long-term policy model of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in moderate-to-advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD).

Valve thrombosis can occur in mechanical prosthetic valves and is increasingly recognised in transcatheter and surgically implanted bioprosthetic valves. The risk of thrombosis of mechanical valves is higher in the mitral position compared with aortic position and in older generation valves (ball and cage valves). There is a wide spectrum of presentation from the asymptomatic patient to those with embolic complications or cardiogenic shock. A combination of transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography is required to assess the haemodynamic effect of thrombosis (valve gradients and area), leaflet motion and thrombus size. CT or cinefluoroscopy may be useful in selected cases to assess leaflet motion or help identify the aetiology of valve obstruction where echocardiography is inconclusive. Exclusion of pannus or vegetation is important. Management of non-obstructive thrombus is primarily optimisation of anti-coagulation. Treatment of obstructive thrombus requires a decision between slow, low-dose fibrinolysis or valve surgery. Factors which need to be considered include thrombus size, New York Heart Association Class, presence of concomitant coronary artery disease or other valve dysfunction, surgical risk and contraindication to fibrinolysis. This review examines the incidence, aetiology, clinical features, imaging algorithms and management of prosthetic valve thrombosis.

Primary empty sella (PES) is characterized by the herniation of the subarachnoid space within the sella, which is often associated with variable degree of flattening of the pituitary gland in patients without previous pituitary pathologies. PES pathogenetic mechanism are not well known but seem due to a sellar diaphragm incompetence, associated to the occurrence of upper sellar or pituitary factors, as intracranial hypertension and change of pituitary volume. As PES represents in majority of cases a neuroradiological findings, without any clinical implication, the occurrence of endocrine, neurological and opthalmological symptoms, due to the above describes anatomical alteration, delineates the so called PES syndrome. Headache, irregular menses, overweight/obesity and visual disturbances compose the typical picture of PES syndrome and can be the manifestation of an intracranial hypertension, often associated with PES. Although hyperprolactinemia and growth hormone deficit represent the most common endocrine abnormalities, PES syndrome is characterized by heterogeneity both in clinical manifestation and hormonal alterations and can sometime reach severe extremes, as occurrence of papilledema, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and worsening of visual acuity. Consequently, a multidisciplinary approach, with the integration of endocrine, neurologic and ophthalmologic expertise, is strongly advocated and recommended for a properly diagnosis, management, treatment and follow-up of PES syndrome and of all related abnormalities.

Increased platelet aggregation during antiplatelet therapy may predict cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease. The majority of these patients receive aspirin monotherapy. We aimed to investigate whether high platelet-aggregation levels predict cardiovascular events in stable coronary artery disease patients treated with aspirin.

Rehospitalizations (RHs) after ST-elevation myocardial infarction carry a high economic burden and may deteriorate quality of life. Characterizing patients at higher risk may allow the design of preventive measures. We studied the frequency, reasons, and predictors for unplanned cardiac and noncardiac RHs in ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

To characterise and compare cognitive outcomes in children with operated (open-heart surgery) and non-operated (catheter-based interventions only or no intervention) congenital heart defects (CHD) and to determine associated risk factors.

São Paulo city, Brazil, faces challenges caused by rapid urbanization. We illustrate how future travel patterns could lead to different health consequences in the city.

Brain abscess is a significant cause of morbidity in patients with uncorrected or partially palliated congenital cyanotic heart disease (CCHD). Unfortunately, in the developing world, the majority of the patients with CCHD remain either uncorrected or partially palliated. Furthermore, a risk of this feared complication also exists even among those undergoing staged corrective operations in the interval in between operations. There have been no recent articles in the literature on surgical outcomes of management of cardiogenic brain abscess in children.

Glyoxal (GO) and Methylglyoxal (MGO) are two dicarbonyls involved in the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs). Endothelial cells in the vessels are in constant contact with circulating AGEs and dicarbonyls. With this project, we aimed to elucidate the effect of GO and MGO on primary human vascular endothelial cells (HVECs).

Prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV) after surgical repair of acute type-A aortic dissection (ATAAD) is associated with an increased risk for mortality and morbidity. The goal of this study was to evaluate the influence of PMV on early and late outcomes and to identify the risk factors for PMV after ATAAD repair.

The aim of this study was to analyze whether scar characterization could improve the risk stratification for life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death (SCD).

In this analysis of 2-year outcomes in the ADAPT-DES (Assessment of Dual AntiPlatelet Therapy with Drug-Eluting Stents) study, the authors sought to examine the independent associations between platelet reactivity to both aspirin and clopidogrel and subsequent outcomes.

The study sought to compare clinical outcomes in a contemporary acute coronary syndrome (ACS) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) cohort stratified by chronic kidney disease (CKD) status.

This article focuses on the complex interactions between the cardiovascular and neurologic systems. Initially, we focus on neurological complications in children with congenital heart disease both secondary to the underlying cardiac disease and complications of interventions. We later discuss diagnosis and management of common syncope syndromes with emphasis on vasovagal syncope. We also review the diagnosis, classification, and management of children and adolescents with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome. Lastly, we discuss long QT syndrome and sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP), reviewing advances in genetics and current knowledge of pathophysiology of these conditions. This article attempts to provide an overview of these disorders with focus on pathophysiology, advances in molecular genetics, and current medical interventions.

Vacuolar degeneration of cardiomyocytes is a histological finding commonly encountered during routine light microscopic examination of human endomyocardial biopsy specimens. The vacuoles appear as intracellular clear areas lacking myofibers. By itself, this finding has little diagnostic value, but may have important clinical implications when the vacuolar contents are of etiological significance (e.g., accumulation of abnormal metabolites), and the clinical importance is increased when the disease is treatable. Thanks to its great resolving power, electron microscopy can often reveal the contents of the vacuoles and lead to a correct diagnosis. It can be used to differentially diagnose lysosomal storage diseases such as Fabry, Danon, and Pompe disease, doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, mitochondrial cardiomyopathy, autophagic degeneration, and accumulation of subcellular organelles (mitochondria, lipofuscin, glycogen granules, endoplasmic reticulum, etc.) as a nonspecific finding in failing cardiomyocytes. Nonetheless, undiagnosed cases certainly remain. It is strongly recommended that small pieces of tissue samples be fixed for electron microscopy at every endomyocardial biopsy procedure, and electron microscopic examination should be performed when a marked vacuolar degeneration is found.

Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a disorder of breathing during sleep resulting in temporary reduction in cerebral oxygenation and sleep disruption. A growing body of research reveals a relatively consistent pattern of deficits in cognition, particularly in attention, episodic memory, and executive function, which are partially remediated by treatment. This is where the consensus ends. Despite a number of competing explanations regarding how OSA affects cognition, reliable evidence is hard to find, which may relate to the many, common conditions co-morbid with OSA or to the methodological challenges in this field. This paper reviews the evidence for cognitive impairment in OSA, the proposed models of cognitive harm, the impact of co-morbidities and the many methodological and theoretical challenges of exploring the effect of OSA on cognition. To overcome some of these challenges, we end by proposing a number of future directions for the field, including suggesting some core design elements for future studies.

Guided by the Transactional Model of Stress and Coping, the purpose of this cross-sectional study was to examine clinical factors-demographics, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) severity, cognitive/perceptual variables (appraisal and coping)-and their relationship to clinically elevated symptoms of anxiety in a sample of veterans with COPD.

This review focuses on the complex relationship between inflammation and the onset of acute coronary syndrome and heart failure.

Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is a heritable form of cardiomyopathy, typically with autosomal dominant transmission, shown to be a defect in the cardiac desmosomes, with distinct regional and histopathological features. Clinically, this can ultimately result in bi-ventricular failure and/or malignant ventricular tachycardia (VT) via reentrant circuits created by patchy scar formation. We sought to review the current treatment for ventricular arrhythmias in the setting of ARVC, with particular attention to radiofrequency (RF) ablation and its varied techniques, along with potential therapies in the ablation spectrum.

Cholesterol management in the current era is discussed. Aggressive reduction of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol plays a key role in primary and secondary prevention of heart disease. Statins are the recommended first-line therapy in patients with hyperlipidemia; however, additional complementary approaches are frequently needed for patients who fail to reach their target LDL.

Development of congestive heart failure as a manifestation of various cardiovascular ailments is not only an adverse prognostic factor for patients on long-term dialysis but its presence at the initiation of hemodialysis is another independent indicator of higher mortality.

Cardiomyopathy is a significant complication of various cancer treatments and has been best studied in patients receiving anthracyclines and trastuzumab. This paper evaluates strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity.

Atherosclerotic plaque rupture is accompanied by an acute decrease in the carotid plaque expression of micro-RNAs (miRs)-221 and miR-222. Circular RNA (circR)-284 is a potential inhibitor of miR-221/miR-222 activity. We aimed to determine whether changes in the serum levels of these noncoding RNAs are observed in patients with asymptomatic high-grade carotid disease versus patients with acutely symptomatic carotid disease and recent ischemic stroke. Additionally, we tested the use of functionally related noncoding RNA pairs to enhance the discriminatory power of noncoding RNAs as circulating biomarkers.

Whether disclosing genetic risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) to individuals influences information seeking and information sharing is not known. We hypothesized that disclosing genetic risk for CHD to individuals influences information seeking and sharing.

Background -Cardiomyopathy and arrhythmias are under significant genetic influence. Here, we studied a family with dilated cardiomyopathy and associated conduction system disease in whom prior clinical cardiac gene panel testing was unrevealing. Methods -Whole genome sequencing and induced pluripotent stem cells were used to examine a family with dilated cardiomyopathy and atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. We also characterized a mouse model with heterozygous and homozygous deletion of MybphlResults -Whole genome sequencing identified a premature stop codon, R255X, in the MYBPHL gene encoding myosin-binding protein-H like (MyBP-HL), a novel member of the myosin binding protein family. MYBPHL was found to have high atrial expression with low ventricular expression. We determined that MyBP-HL protein was myofilament-associated in the atria, and truncated MyBP-HL protein failed to incorporate into the myofilament. Human cell modeling demonstrated reduced expression from the mutant MYBPHL allele. Echocardiography of Mybphl heterozygous and null mouse hearts exhibited a 36% reduction in fractional shortening (FS) and an increased diastolic ventricular chamber size. Atria weight normalized to total heart weight was significantly increased in Mybphl heterozygous and null mice. Using a reporter system, we detected robust expression of Mybphl in the atria as well as in discrete puncta throughout the right ventricular wall and septum. Telemetric electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings in Mybphl mice revealed cardiac conduction system abnormalities with aberrant atrioventricular conduction and an increased rate of arrhythmia in heterozygous and null mice. Conclusions -The findings of reduced ventricular function and conduction system defects in Mybphl mice support that MYBPHL truncations may increase risk for human arrhythmias and cardiomyopathy.

Background -Correct gene expression programming of the cardiomyocyte underlies the normal functioning of the heart. Alterations to this can lead to the loss of cardiac homeostasis, triggering heart dysfunction. Though the role of some histone methyltransferases in establishing the transcriptional program of post-natal cardiomyocytes during heart development has been shown, the function of this class of epigenetic enzyme is largely unexplored in the adult heart. In this study, we investigated the role of G9a/Ehmt2-a histone methyltransferase that defines a repressive epigenetic signature-in defining the transcriptional program for cardiomyocyte homeostasis and cardiac hypertrophy. Methods -We investigated the function of G9a in normal and stressed cardiomyocytes with the use of a conditional, cardiac-specific G9a knockout mouse, a specific G9a inhibitor, and high-throughput approaches for the study of the epigenome (ChIP-seq) and transcriptome (RNA-seq); traditional methods were employed for the assessment of cardiac function and cardiovascular disease. Results -We found that G9a is required for cardiomyocyte homeostasis in the adult heart by mediating: 1) the repression of key genes regulating cardiomyocyte function, via dimethylation of H3 lysine 9 and interaction with enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), the catalytic subunit of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2); and 2) MEF2C-dependent gene expression, by forming a complex with this transcription factor. The G9a-MEF2C complex was found to be required also for the maintenance of heterochromatin needed for the silencing of developmental genes in the adult heart. Moreover, G9a promoted cardiac hypertrophy by repressing anti-hypertrophic genes. Conclusions -Taken together, our findings demonstrate that G9a orchestrates critical epigenetic changes in cardiomyocytes in physiological and pathological conditions, thereby providing novel therapeutic avenues for cardiac pathologies associated with dysregulation of these mechanisms.

Black persons have an excess burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) compared with white persons. This burden persists after adjustment for socioeconomic status and other known CVD risk factors. This study evaluated the CVD burden and the socioeconomic gradient of CVD among black participants in the JHS (Jackson Heart Study).

Different pathways likely underlie the association between early weight gain and cardiovascular disease risk. We examined whether birth weight for length relationship and weight gain up to 2 years of age are associated with lipid profiles and blood pressure (BP) in early adolescence and determined whether childhood adiposity mediates these associations.

Transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation is approved for the treatment of dysfunctional right ventricle to pulmonary artery conduits. However, the literature is limited because of a small patient population, and it does not reflect changing procedural practice patterns over the last decade.

Previous studies have shown that diabetic peripheral neuropathy affects both unmyelinated and myelinated afferents, similar to those evoking the exercise pressor reflex. However, the effect of type 1 diabetes (T1DM) on this reflex is not known. We examined, in decerebrate, male and female T1DM rats (STZ) and healthy controls (CTL), pressor and cardioaccelerator responses to isometric contraction of the hindlimb muscles, during the early and late stages of the disease. Streptozotocin (STZ; 50mg/kg) was injected to induce diabetes and experiments were conducted at 1 week, 3 weeks and 6 weeks following injection. On the day of the experiment, we statically contracted the hindlimb muscles by stimulating the sciatic nerve and measured changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR). We found that the pressor but not cardioaccelerator response was exaggerated in STZ rats at 1 week (STZ: 21±3 mmHg, n=10; CTL: 14±2 mmHg, n=10; p<0.05) and at 3 weeks (STZ: 26±5 mmHg, n=10; CTL: 17±3 mmHg, n=11, p<0.05) following injection. However, at 6 weeks, and only in males, both the pressor (STZ: 13±3 mmHg, n=12; CTL: 17±3 mmHg, n=13, p<0.05) and cardioaccelerator responses (STZ: 7±3 bpm, n=12; CTL: 10±3 bpm, n=13, p<0.05) to contraction was significantly attenuated in STZ rats compared to CTL. These data indicate that T1DM exaggerates the exercise pressor reflex during the early stages of the disease in both male and female rats. Conversely, T1DM attenuates this reflex in the late stage of the disease in male but not female rats.

Inherited or acquired alterations in the structure and function of connexin proteins have long been associated with disease. In the present work, we review current knowledge on the role of connexins in diseases associated with the heart, nervous system, cochlea, and skin, as well as cancer and pleiotropic syndromes such as oculodentodigital dysplasia (ODDD). Although incomplete by virtue of space and the extent of the topic, this review emphasizes the fact that connexin function is not only associated with gap junction channel formation. As such, both canonical and noncanonical functions of connexins are fundamental components in the pathophysiology of multiple connexin related disorders, many of them highly debilitating and life threatening. Improved understanding of connexin biology has the potential to advance our understanding of mechanisms, diagnosis, and treatment of disease.

Hyperkalemia is a potentially life-threatening electrolyte disorder appreciated with greater frequency in patients with renal disease, heart failure, and with use of certain medications such as renin angiotensin aldosterone inhibitors. The traditional views that hyperkalemia can be reliably diagnosed by electrocardiogram and that particular levels of hyperkalemia confer cardiotoxic risk have been challenged by several reports of patients with atypic presentations. Epidemiologic data demonstrate strong associations of morbidity and mortality in patients with hyperkalemia but these associations appear disconnected in certain patient populations and in differing clinical presentations. Physiologic adaptation, structural cardiac disease, medication use, and degree of concurrent illness might predispose certain patients presenting with hyperkalemia to a lower or higher threshold for toxicity. These factors are often overlooked; yet data suggest that the clinical context in which hyperkalemia develops is at least as important as the degree of hyperkalemia is in determining patient outcome. This review summarizes the clinical data linking hyperkalemia with poor outcomes and discusses how the efficacy of certain treatments might depend on the clinical presentation.

Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) device implantation is hampered by difficult placement of the left ventricular (LV) lead. We have routinely employed a steerable electrophysiology catheter to guide coronary sinus (CS) cannulation and facilitate LV lead positioning. The aim of this prospective study is to present our results with this approach in 138 consecutive patients receiving a CRT device over 10 years.

Methionine synthase reductase (MTRR) is one of the main regulatory enzymes in the homocysteine/folate pathway. Genes involved in this pathway may play an important role in the development of congenital heart diseases (CHDs). C524T and A66G polymorphisms of MTRR gene may play an imperative role in the development of acyanotic CHDs. This study carried out on 200 children equally divided into 2 groups: group I: 100 children with acyanotic CHDs; and group II: 100 healthy children served as controls. PCR-RFLP method carried out to amplify the A66G and C524T polymorphisms of MTRR gene digested with Xho1and NdeI enzymes. A significant difference(P=0.015) in genotype frequencies of C524T polymorphism between cases and controls, where CC, CT, and TT were 14.0%, 40.0% and 46.0% in patients compared to 38.0,36.0% and 26.0% in controls. Again, a significant difference (P=0.010) in genotype frequencies of A66G polymorphism between the two groups as AA, AG and GG were 26.0%, 32.0% and42.0% in patients compared to 48.0, 36.0% and 16.0% in controls. Also, MTRR A66G and C524T polymorphisms were associated with a higher CHD risk in the homozygote comparison of wild and mutant genotypes and also in heterozygote and mutant comparison. So A66G and C524T polymorphisms of MTRR gene are associated with increased risk of acyanotic CHDs.

To meet its exceptionally high energy demands, the heart relies largely on fatty acid oxidation, which then drives the oxidative phosphorylation system in mitochondria. Each day, this system produces about 6kg of ATP to sustain heart function. Fatty acid oxidation is sometimes associated with high rates of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. By definition, ROS are singlet electron intermediates formed during the partial reduction of oxygen to water and they include radical and non-radical intermediates like superoxide, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical. Superoxide can also interact with nitric oxide to produce peroxynitrite that in turn can give rise to other radical or non-radical reactive nitrogen species (RNS) like nitrogen dioxide, dinitrogen trioxide and others. While mitochondrial and cellular functions can be impaired by ROS if they accumulate, under normal physiological conditions ROS are important signaling molecules in the cardiovascular system. A fine balance between ROS production and antioxidant systems, including glutathione redox, is essential in the heart; otherwise the ensuing damage can contribute to pathogenic processes, which can culminate in endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia/reperfusion damage, and heart failure. Here we provide a succinct review of recent findings.

Impaired renal function, reflected by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or cystatin C, is a strong risk predictor in the presence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (uNGAL) is an early marker of acute kidney injury. uNGAL might also be a good predictor of outcome in patients with cardiovascular disease. Aim of the present study was to evaluate the prognostic value of uNGAL compared to eGFR and cystatin C in patients with suspected AMI.

Stroke volume (SV) and cardiac output are important measures in the clinical evaluation of cardiac patients and are also frequently used in research applications. This study was aimed to improve SV scoring derived from spot-electrode based impedance cardiography (ICG) in a pediatric population of healthy volunteers and patients with a corrected congenital heart defect.

Transfusion, a common practice in critical care, is not without complication. Acute adverse reactions to transfusion occur within 24 hours and include acute hemolytic transfusion reaction, febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction, allergic and anaphylactic reactions, and transfusion-related acute lung injury, transfusion-related infection or sepsis, and transfusion-associated circulatory overload. Delayed transfusion adverse reactions develop 48 hours or more after transfusion and include erythrocyte and platelet alloimmunization, delayed hemolytic transfusion reactions, posttransfusion purpura, transfusion-related immunomodulation, transfusion-associated graft versus host disease, and, with long-term transfusion, iron overload. Clinical strategies may reduce the likelihood of reactions and improve patient outcomes.

High sodium intake, whether via diet or drugs, augments cardiorenal risk. Regardless of its source, high sodium intake can both lead to hypertension and reduce the efficacy of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors, which are currently guideline-recommended treatments for hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and heart failure. Reducing sodium intake is therefore recommended to reduce the risk of adverse cardiorenal outcomes. An inverse relationship exists between sodium and potassium, with foods high in sodium being lower in potassium. Diets high in potassium have been associated with reducing hypertension and heart failure; however, optimal renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor dosing is often limited by hyperkalemia, which can lead to life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias and increased mortality. Potassium binders are effective at reducing potassium levels. Although some use sodium as the potassium exchange ion, thus increasing sodium intake, a new potassium binder uses another exchange ion and therefore does not increase sodium intake. When treatment options require agents that may precipitate hyperkalemia, particularly in patients at high cardiorenal risk, drugs that do not add to the sodium load may be preferred. A literature search was conducted using PubMed; search terms included potassium, sodium, hyperkalemia, potassium binders, and the literature search focused on manuscripts published more recently since 2000.

To assess the influence of guideline-adherent vs nonadherent antithrombotic treatment (ATT) on stroke and mortality rates in an atrial fibrillation (AF) primary care population.

It is now recognized that asthma can present in different forms. Typically, asthma present with symptoms of wheeze, breathlessness and cough. Atypical forms of asthma such as cough variant asthma (CVA) or chest tightness variant asthma (CTVA) do not wheeze. We hypothesize that these different forms of asthma may have distinctive cellular and molecular features.

To investigate the association of several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within Interleukin-6 (IL- 6) and vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene, and additional gene- gene and gene- smoking interaction with coronary heart disease (CHD) risk in a Chinese population.

This study investigated the total sleep time (TST) and its associated factors in an older Chinese adult population. Multistage stratified cluster sampling was used in this cross-sectional study. A total of 4,115 older adults aged 60 to 79 years were selected and interviewed. Sleep duration was classified as short ( 8h per day) and medium sleep (7-8h per day). The total mean sleep time was 6.86±1.75h. Short and long sleepers accounted for 45.2% and 14.8% of the sample, respectively. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that inadequate fruit intake and poor mental health were positively associated with short sleep, and married/cohabitation status and living in rural areas was negatively associated with short sleep. In addition, aged 75-79 years old, inadequate fruit intake, poor mental health and multi-morbidity were positively associated with long sleep. Ischemic heart disease, COPD and chronic gastroenteritis/peptic ulcer were positively associated with short sleep duration, while hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cerebrovascular diseases, and urolithiasis were positively associated with long sleep duration. Given the high frequency of aberrant sleep duration and its negative health impact, health professionals should pay more attention to sleep patterns in older people.

Fibrosis is associated with organ failure and high mortality and is commonly characterized by aberrant myofibroblast accumulation. Investigating the cellular origin of myofibroblasts in various diseases is thus a promising strategy for developing targeted anti-fibrotic treatments. Recent studies using genetic lineage tracing technology have implicated diverse organ-resident perivascular mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-like cells and bone marrow-MSCs in myofibroblast generation during fibrosis development. In this Review, we give an overview of the emerging role of MSCs and MSC-like cells in myofibroblast-mediated fibrotic disease in the kidney, lung, heart, liver, skin, and bone marrow.

Cardiomyocyte creation by human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) has generated opportunities for heart repair, disease modeling, and drug development. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell,Lee et al. (2017) report prospective markers of atrial versus ventricular myocyte formation from hPSCs and their use in directed differentiation of cardiac sub-lineages.

To assess the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of endotheline receptor gene with the severity of coronary heart disease (CHD).

To explore the pathogenesis of a child with growth retardation, liver damage and congenital heart disease.

To explore the implications of copy number variations (CNVs) for congenital heart diseases (CHD) in fetuses.

To explore the correlation between 13q33-q34 microdeletion and clinical phenotype.

Insulin resistance is considered to be a pathogenetic mechanism in several and diverse diseases (e.g. type 2 diabetes, atherosclerosis) often antedating them in apparently healthy subjects. The aim of this study is to investigate with a microarray based approach whether IR per se is characterized by a specific pattern of gene expression. For this purpose we analyzed the transcriptomic profile of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in two groups (10 subjects each) of healthy individuals, with extreme insulin resistance or sensitivity, matched for BMI, age and gender, selected within the MultiKnowledge Study cohort (n = 148). Data were analyzed with an ad-hoc rank-based classification method. 321 genes composed the gene set distinguishing the insulin resistant and sensitive groups, within which the "Adrenergic signaling in cardiomyocytes" KEGG pathway was significantly represented, suggesting a pattern of increased intracellular cAMP and Ca2+, and apoptosis in the IR group. The same pathway allowed to discriminate between insulin resistance and insulin sensitive subjects with BMI >25, supporting his role as a biomarker of IR. Moreover, ASCM pathway harbored biomarkers able to distinguish healthy and diseased subjects (from publicly available data sets) in IR-related diseases involving excitable cells: type 2 diabetes, chronic heart failure, and Alzheimer's disease. The altered gene expression profile of the ASCM pathway is an early molecular signature of IR and could provide a common molecular pathogenetic platform for IR-related disorders, possibly representing an important aid in the efforts aiming at preventing, early detecting and optimally treating IR-related diseases.

Rates of diabetes in pregnancy are disproportionately higher among Aboriginal than non-Aboriginal women in Australia. Additional challenges are posed by the context of Aboriginal health including remoteness and disadvantage. A clinical register was established in 2011 to improve care coordination, and as an epidemiological and quality assurance tool. This paper presents results from a process evaluation identifying what worked well, persisting challenges and opportunities for improvement.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) identified susceptibility loci associated with decreased hippocampal volume, and found hippocampal subfield-specific effects at MSRB3 (methionine sulfoxide reductase-B3). The MSRB3 locus was also linked to increased risk for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we uncovered novel sites of MsrB3 expression in CA pyramidal layer and arteriolar walls by using automated immunohistochemistry on hippocampal sections from 23 individuals accompanied by neuropathology reports and clinical dementia rating scores. Controls, cognitively intact subjects with no hippocampal neurofibrillary tangles, exhibited MsrB3 signal as distinct but rare puncta in CA1 pyramidal neuronal somata. In CA3, however, MsrB3-immunoreactivity was strongest in the neuropil of the pyramidal layer. These patterns were replicated in rodent hippocampi where ultrastructural and immunohistofluorescence analysis revealed MsrB3 signal associated with synaptic vesicles and colocalized with mossy fiber terminals. In AD subjects, the number of CA1 pyramidal neurons with frequent, rather than rare, MsrB3-immunoreactive somatic puncta increased in comparison to controls. This change in CA1 phenotype correlated with the occurrence of AD pathological hallmarks. Moreover, the intensity of MsrB3 signal in the neuropil of CA3 pyramidal layer correlated with the signal pattern in neurons of CA1 pyramidal layer that was characteristic of cognitively intact individuals. Finally, MsrB3 signal in the arteriolar walls in the hippocampal white matter decreased in AD patients. This characterization of GWAS-implicated MSRB3 protein expression in human hippocampus suggests that patterns of neuronal and vascular MsrB3 protein expression reflect or underlie pathology associated with AD.

Palliative care demonstrably improves quality of life for the seriously ill in a manner that averts preventable health crises and their associated costs. Because of these outcomes, palliative care is now broadening its reach beyond hospitals, and hospice care for those near death, to patients and their families living in the community with chronic multimorbidities that have uncertain or long expected survival. In this article, we address research needed to enable policies supportive of palliative care access and quality, including changes in regulatory, accreditation, financing, and training approaches in the purview of policy makers. Mr. K. is an 86-year-old male with multimorbidities, including severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, and atrial fibrillation requiring anticoagulation therapy. He fell in his mobile home and was unable to reach the telephone to call for help. Six hours later, his neighbor found him lying on the bedroom floor in pain and confused, and called 911. On examination, he was found to have a cold blue foot complicated by a large hematoma. The vascular surgery service was consulted to evaluate Mr. K. for revascularization or amputation. Although Mr. K. had several risk factors complicating his candidacy for general anesthesia, the team thought the benefits of surgery would outweigh the risks. Mr. K's daughter agreed to surgery telling her father "the doctors know best." Mr. K. replied "I just want to be out of pain." Six months later, Mr. K. remains in a skilled nursing facility due to post-op complications, including pneumonia, worsened confusion, and the inability to recover to enough function to live safely at home. He now suffers from depression, cognitive deficits, and social isolation. His daughter has had to take on a second job because she is struggling to pay for his continued long-term care, which costs $6000 per month. Money she had saved for her own retirement and her daughter's college tuition is already gone. In retrospect, she realizes the surgical team did not discuss the possibility of his survival with chronic debility and long-term functional dependency, nor the fact that Medicare would not pay for the care he now requires.

Although the role of pediatric palliative care (PPC) is well described in oncology, neonatal, and pediatric intensive care patients, the involvement of PPC in patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) is not well explored. CHD is a leading cause of neonatal morbidity and can cause ongoing morbidity throughout the course of a child's life. PPC, with its focus on quality of life and longitudinal care through the course of an illness, could be of benefit to this population.

A fully implantable axial left ventricular assist device LAP31 was developed for Chinese or other heart failure patients who need partial support. Based on the 5-Lpm total cardiac blood output of Chinese without heart failure disease, the design point of LAP31 was set to a flow rate of 3 Lpm with 100-mmHg pressure head. To achieve the required pressure head and good hemolytic performance, a structure that includes a spindly rotor hub and a diffuser with splitter and cantilevered main blades was developed. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was used to analyze the hydraulic and hemodynamic performance of LAP31. Then in vitro hydraulics experiments were conducted. The numerical simulation results show that LAP31 could generate a 1 to 8 Lpm flow rate with a 60.9 to 182.7 mmHg pressure head when the pump was rotating between 9,000 and 12,000 rpm. The average scalar shear stress of the blood pump was 21.7 Pa, and the average exposure time was 71.0 milliseconds. The mean hemolysis index of LAP31 obtained using Heuser's hemolysis model and Giersiepen's model was 0.220% and 3.89 × 10-5% respectively. After adding the splitter blades, the flow separation at the suction surface of the diffuser was reduced. The cantilever structure reduced the tangential velocity from 6.1 to 4.7-1.4 m/s within the blade gap by changing the blade gap from shroud to hub. Subsequently, the blood damage caused by shear stress was reduced. In conclusion, the hydraulic and hemolytic characteristics of the LAP31 are acceptable for partial support.

Complex sleep apnea syndrome (Comp-SAS) is the term used to describe a specific form of sleep disordered breathing characterized by the arise of central sleep apnea in patient with previous obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) treated with continuous positive airway pressure devices (CPAP). The mechanisms of its occurrence are not well understood, but partly it seems to be a consequence of increased carbon dioxide elimination under positive airway pressure treatment and related improvement of pulmonary ventilation. The prevalence of Comp-SAS ranges from 5% to 20% of OSAS patient getting CPAP therapy with no significant predictors in comparison with simple obstructive sleep apnea, but more likely to happened in older males with more severe OSAS and accompanying cardiovascular pathology such as ischemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation and heart failure. In most cases of Comp-SAS, central apnea events are transient and disappear after continuous CPAP therapy use for 1 to 2 months. Novel treatment options like adaptive servo-ventilation or BiPAP-ST are available for such non-responders to CPAP but contra-indicated to patients with systolic heart failure. From the other hand, still not clear is it mandatory to treat all affected individuals with Comp-SAS if the disease is uncomplicated and patient is asymptomatic.

We examined temporal changes in consumer attitudes toward broad-based actions and environment-specific policies to limit sodium in restaurants, manufactured foods, and school and workplace cafeterias from the 2012 and 2015 SummerStyle surveys. We used two online, national research panel surveys to conduct a cross-sectional analysis of 7845 U.S. adults. Measures included self-reported agreement with broad-based actions and environment-specific policies to limit sodium in restaurants, manufactured foods, school cafeterias, workplace cafeterias, and quick-serve restaurants. Wald Chi-square tests were used to examine the difference between the two survey years and multivariate logistic regression was used to obtain odds ratios. Agreement with broad-based actions to limit sodium in restaurants (45.9% agreed in 2015) and manufactured foods (56.5% agreed in 2015) did not change between 2012 and 2015. From 2012 to 2015, there was a significant increase in respondents that supported environment-specific policies to lower sodium in school cafeterias (80.0% to 84.9%; p < 0.0001), workplace cafeterias (71.2% to 76.6%; p < 0.0001), and quick-serve restaurants (70.8% to 76.7%; p < 0.0001). Results suggest substantial agreement and support for actions to limit sodium in commercially-processed and prepared foods since 2012, with most consumers ready for actions to lower sodium in foods served in schools, workplaces, and quick-serve restaurants.

The poloxamer 407 (P-407) non-genetic, non-diet-induced mouse model of dose-controlled hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis was first introduced in 1992. Dyslipidemia is produced in C57BL/6 mice of either sex following the intraperitoneal administration of P-407, which is a polyether-based nonionic surface-active-agent. Aortic atherosclerotic lesions begin to form after 1 month of repeated P-407 administration and obtain maximum size, numerical density, and human-like pathological features by 4 months. Our laboratory published a review of this model in 2004, although an update would seem both appropriate and timely based on new findings since 2004. Using P-407-treated mice, we have investigated the effect that hyperlipidemia has on the activity of several classes of proteases in the heart, liver, and serum, extensively characterized lipoprotein fractions and subfractions associated with atherogenic plasma lipids, investigated whether several key vascular cell adhesion molecules were perturbed, and determined whether the biological activity of two peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors was modulated both in vitro and in vivo. Based on our findings since 2004, as well as those prior to 2004 (1992-2004), we would strongly suggest that the P-407-induced hyperlipidemic mouse model represents a convenient, inexpensive, and well-documented alternative mouse model with which to study cardiovascular heart disease arising from dyslipidemia and atherosclerosis.

Circulating cardiac troponin has been associated with adverse prognosis in the acute respiratory distress syndrome in small and single-center studies; however, comprehensive studies of myocardial injury in acute respiratory distress syndrome using modern high-sensitivity troponin assays, which can detect troponin at much lower circulating concentrations, have not been performed.

The association of HIV with coronary atherosclerosis has been established; however, the progression of coronary atherosclerosis over time among participants with HIV is not well known. The Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study Quantitative Coronary Plaque Progression Study is a large prospective multicenter study quantifying progression of coronary plaque assessed by serial coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA).

We aimed to compare the operator and patient radiation exposure in standard projections during elective diagnostic coronary angiography procedures via transradial (TRA) versus transfemoral (TFA) approaches.

Long-term risk of post-discharge mortality associated with acute coronary syndrome remains a concern. The development of a model to reliably estimate two-year mortality risk from hospital discharge post-acute coronary syndrome will help guide treatment strategies.

Pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacterial (PNTM) disease often affects white postmenopausal women, with a tall and lean body habitus and higher rates of scoliosis, pectus excavatum, mitral valve prolapse, and mutations in the CFTR gene. These clinical features and the familial clustering of the disease suggest an underlying genetic mechanism.

Coronary intervention therapy is the main treatment for uremic patients with coronary heart disease. The studies on whether dialysis reduces the efficacy of dual antiplatelet drugs are limited. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of dialysis on antiplatelet drugs in uremic patients with coronary heart disease.

The emergency department (ED) has a pivotal influence on the management of acute heart failure (AHF), but data concerning current ED management are scarce. This Beijing AHF Registry Study investigated the characteristics, ED management, and short- and long-term clinical outcomes of AHF.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a serious condition where diagnosis often is delayed due to unspecific symptoms. New methods to diagnose and differentiate PH earlier would therefore be of great value. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate the relationship between circulating angiogenic and inflammatory biomarkers and various hemodynamic variables in relation to different causes of PH.

To evaluate treatment outcomes of pediatric valvar aortic stenosis (AS) in a nationwide follow-up.

A febrile respiratory infectious disease unit (FRIDU) with a negative pressure ventilation system was constructed outside the emergency department (ED) of the Samsung Medical Center in 2015, to screen for patients with contagious diseases requiring isolation. We evaluated the utility of the FRIDU during 1 year of operation. We analyzed 1,562 patients who were hospitalized after FRIDU screening between August 2015 and July 2016. The level of isolation recommended during their screening at the FRIDU was compared with the level deemed appropriate given their final diagnosis. Of the 1,562 patients screened at the FRIDU, 198 (13%) were isolated, 194 (12%) were reverse isolated, and 1,170 (75%) were not isolated. While hospitalized, 97 patients (6%) were confirmed to have a contagious disease requiring isolation, such as tuberculosis; 207 patients (13%) were confirmed to be immunocompromised and to require reverse isolation, mainly due to neutropenia; and the remaining 1,258 patients (81%) did not require isolation. The correlation coefficient for isolation consistency was 0.565 (P < 0.001). The sensitivity and negative predictive value of FRIDU screening for diagnosing contagious disease requiring isolation are 76% and 98%, respectively. No serious nosocomial outbreaks of contagious diseases occurred. During FRIDU screening, 114 patients were admitted to the resuscitation zone due to clinical instability, and three of these patients died. The initial isolation levels resulting from FRIDU screening were moderately well correlated with the isolation levels required by the final diagnosis, demonstrating the utility of pre-hospitalization screening units. However, the risks of deterioration during the screening process remain challenges.

Cutaneous metastasis of an internal malignancy is uncommon and is estimated to occur in 0.7-9% of patients with internal cancer including autopsy cases. We would like to report a case of long survival of sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma diagnosed as an instance of facial cutaneous metastasis. A 68-year-old male was admitted to our hospital for a tumor mass on the left side of his cheek. In his past history, acute myocardial infarction had occurred 2 years earlier. He also had chronic renal failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Histologic findings from the biopsy sample of this facial lesion were moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Colonoscopy revealed a tumor 20 mm × 30 mm in diameter in the sigmoid colon. Histologic findings of the biopsy sample of this tumor also indicated moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The patient was diagnosed with sigmoid colon cancer with cutaneous metastasis to the face. We performed a sigmoidectomy with lymph node dissection and resection of the facial cutaneous metastasis. After being discharged, low dose chemotherapy was performed in consideration of the patient's renal function. Although long-term management of his general condition was provided, the patient died 37 months after surgery because of chronic heart failure.

Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is an uncommon complication of pregnancy. Early case reports identified overlap between familial dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and PPCM, although the degree of overlap is largely unknown. Other evidence supporting a contribution from gene mutations in PPCM includes familial occurrence, genome-wide association studies, variable prevalence among different regions and ethnicities, and more recent investigations of panels of genes for mutations among women with PPCM. Murine models implicate the role of altered metabolism and increased free radical stress to the heart during pregnancy, which seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition. Although the true incidence of genetic cardiomyopathy is not yet known among women with PPCM, there is substantial evidence demonstrating that at least 10-15% of affected women have a clear genetic contribution to their condition. With this in mind, family counseling, cascade phenotypic screening, and clinical genetic testing should be considered among women with PPCM.

Expression of the human thyroid-specific proteins, thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSH-R) and thyroglobulin (TG) in non-thyroid tissue is well-documented. TSH-R has been identified in the heart, kidney, bone, pituitary, adipose tissue, skin and astrocyte cultures. TG has been identified in the skin, thymus and kidney. However, none of those previous studies had identified TSH-R or TG in specific human brain regions. Previously, a pilot study conducted by our group on normal adult human brain demonstrated TSH-R and TG in cortical neurons and cerebral vasculature, respectively, within various brain areas. In the present study, we extend this investigation of thyroid proteins specifically in limbic regions of normal human brain. Forensic human samples of amygdalae, cingulate gyrii, frontal cortices, hippocampii, hypothalamii, and thalamii were obtained from five individuals who had died of causes unrelated to head injury and had no evidence of brain disease or psychological abnormality. Tissues were probed with commercial polyclonal antibodies against human TSH-R and TG which resulted in the significant demonstration of neuronal TSH-R in all limbic regions examined. Other novel results demonstrated TG in vascular smooth muscle of all limbic regions and in some neurons. Finding thyroid proteins in limbic areas of the human brain is unique, and this study demonstrates that cerebro-limbic localisation of thyroid proteins may have potential roles in neuro-psycho-pharmacology.

Successful CTO recanalization has been associated with clinical benefit. Outcomes of patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing CTO PCI have not been investigated, yet.

Limited data are available on long-term mortality according to the extent of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stent (DES). We assessed long-term mortality DES implantation according to the extent of CAD and the impact of left main CAD alone on mortality among patients undergoing PCI with DES.

The Eastern Mediterranean Region faces several health challenges at a difficult time with wars, unrest, and economic change.

Ethics consultations in a clinical setting can be challenging, specifically with respect to limiting therapeutic interventions in terminally ill patients. Some decisions will even be controversial.

Diverse ethnic groups may differ regarding the risk factors and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD). This study sought to assess the association between ethnicity and CAD risk and severity in six major Iranian ethnic groups.

Good quality of life correlates with a good exercise capacity in daily life in patients with tetralogy of Fallot (ToF). Patients after correction of ToF usually develop residual defects such as pulmonary regurgitation or stenosis of variable severity. However, the importance of different hemodynamic parameters and their impact on exercise capacity is unclear. We investigated several hemodynamic parameters measured by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) and echocardiography and evaluated which parameter has the most pronounced effect on maximal exercise capacity determined by cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET). 132 patients with ToF-like hemodynamics were tested during routine follow-up with CMR, echocardiography and CPET. Right and left ventricular volume data, ventricular ejection fraction and pulmonary regurgitation were evaluated by CMR. Echocardiographic pressure gradients in the right ventricular outflow tract and through the tricuspid valve were measured. All data were classified and correlated with the results of CPET evaluations of these patients. The analysis was performed using the Random Forest model. In this way, we calculated the importance of the different hemodynamic variables related to the maximal oxygen uptake in CPET (VO2%predicted). Right ventricular pressure showed the most important influence on maximal oxygen uptake, whereas pulmonary regurgitation and right ventricular enddiastolic volume were not important hemodynamic variables to predict maximal oxygen uptake in CPET. Maximal exercise capacity was only very weakly influenced by right ventricular enddiastolic volume and not at all by pulmonary regurgitation in patients with ToF. The variable with the most pronounced influence was the right ventricular pressure.

Diabetic cardiomyopathy is characterised in its early stages by diastolic relaxation abnormalities and later by clinical heart failure in the absence of dyslipidaemia, hypertension and coronary artery disease. Insulin resistance, hyperinsulinaemia and hyperglycaemia are each independent risk factors for the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. The pathophysiological factors in diabetes that drive the development of cardiomyopathy include systemic metabolic disorders, inappropriate activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, subcellular component abnormalities, oxidative stress, inflammation and dysfunctional immune modulation. These abnormalities collectively promote cardiac tissue interstitial fibrosis, cardiac stiffness/diastolic dysfunction and, later, systolic dysfunction, precipitating the syndrome of clinical heart failure. Recent evidence has revealed that dysregulation of coronary endothelial cells and exosomes also contributes to the pathology behind diabetic cardiomyopathy. Herein, we review the relationships among insulin resistance/hyperinsulinaemia, hyperglycaemia and the development of cardiac dysfunction. We summarise the current understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms in diabetic cardiomyopathy and explore potential preventative and therapeutic strategies.

Bridging collaterals (BC) develop in several chronic total artery occlusion diseases, and can prevent extensive myocardial necrosis. Yet, their origin, growth process, and histo-morphology are still unclear. Since vasa vasorum (VV) may take part in collateralization, we hypothesized that VV are the basis for BCs. To comprehensively investigate this arteriogenesis process, we used high-resolution imaging, including corrosion casts, post-mortem angiography with stereoscopy, micro-CT, and immunohistology, in combination with a novel semi-acute vessel occlusion model. This porcine model was produced by implanting a copper stent minimally invasively into the left anterior descending coronary artery. To define the kinetics of arteriogenesis, pigs (n = 11) were assigned to one of the five euthanasia timepoints: day 0.5 (D0.5, n = 2), D3 (n = 2), D5 (n = 1), D7 (n = 3), or D12 (n = 3) after stent implantation. We found that (1) BCs originate from longitudinally running type 1 VV, mainly VV interna, partially also from VV externa; (2) the growth of VV to BC is rapid, occurring within 7 days; and (3) porcine BCs are likely functionally relevant, considering an observed 102% increase in the number of smooth muscle cell layers in their vascular wall. High-resolution imaging in a minimally invasive non-acute vessel occlusion model is an innovative technique that allowed us to provide direct evidence that porcine BCs develop from the VV. These data may be crucial for further studies on the treatment of angina pectoris and thromboangiitis obliterans through therapeutic stimulation of BC development.

Palinacousis is an auditory illusion rarely reported in cases of temporal lobe dysfunction. After reviewing the literature and comparing our clinical experience, we believe that palinacousis can occur as an aura, a simple partial seizure, a complex partial seizure, and/or a postictal event. Palinacousis maybe more common than recognized in patients with receptive aphasias or diffuse cerebral dysfunction, whose language deficits preclude adequate description. We report the case of a 71 years old man with the previously diagnosis of an infarction of left middle cerebral artery and valvular heart disease who presented with the symptoms of palinacousis. He was not diagnosed psychotic diseases. An electroencephalography showed normal wave. He was diagnosed as temporal lobe epilepsy with palinacousis due to post-stroke. Palinacousis was completely reversed after treatment with antiepileptic drug. We report that palinacousis as an epileptic phenomenon can help localized potential lesions and can improve patient care.

American Indians have a high prevalence of diabetes and higher incidence of stroke than that of whites and blacks in the U.S. Stroke risk prediction models based on data from American Indians would be of clinical and public health value.

Purpose Neuroblastoma is an embryonic solid tumor derived from the progenitors of the sympathetic nervous system. More than half of the patients developed metastatic disease at the time of initial diagnosis and had poor outcome with current therapeutic approaches. In recent years, some obligate and facultative anaerobic bacteria were reported to target the hypoxic and necrotic region of solid tumor models and caused tumor regression. We recently successfully constructed an "obligate" anaerobic Salmonella strain YB1 that was applied in breast cancer nude mice model by us. Here, we report the application of YB1 in neuroblastoma treatment. Methods The anti-cancer effect and side-effects of YB1 was examined in both in vitro and in vivo experiment. Previous established orthotopic neuroblastoma SCID/beige murine model using SK-NLP/luciferase cell line was adopted. ResultsIn vitro, YB1 induced apoptosis for up to 31.4% of the neuroblastoma cells under anaerobic condition, three times more than that under aerobic condition (10.9%). The expression of both Toll like Receptor 4 and 5 (TLR4 and TLR5) in cancer cells were significantly up-regulated (p<0.05, p<0.01 respectively) after the treatment of YB1 under anaerobic condition. In mouse model, YB1 preferentially accumulated inside the core of the tumors, rather than in normal tissues as our previous reported. This is suggestive of the hypoxic nature of tumor core. Tumor growth was significantly retarded in YB1 treatment group (n=6, P<0.01). Furthermore, there was no long-term organ damage noted in all the organs examined including heart, lung, liver, spleen and brain in the YB1 treated mice. Conclusion The genetic modified Salmonella strain YB1 is a promising anti-tumor strategy against the tumor bulk for neuroblastoma. Future study can be extended to other common cancer types to verify the relative efficacy on different neoplastic cells.

Cardiac arrhythmias and conduction disturbances are accompanied by structural remodelling of the specialised cardiomyocytes known collectively as the cardiac conduction system. Here, using contrast enhanced micro-computed tomography, we present, in attitudinally appropriate fashion, the first 3-dimensional representations of the cardiac conduction system within the intact human heart. We show that cardiomyocyte orientation can be extracted from these datasets at spatial resolutions approaching the single cell. These data show that commonly accepted anatomical representations are oversimplified. We have incorporated the high-resolution anatomical data into mathematical simulations of cardiac electrical depolarisation. The data presented should have multidisciplinary impact. Since the rate of depolarisation is dictated by cardiac microstructure, and the precise orientation of the cardiomyocytes, our data should improve the fidelity of mathematical models. By showing the precise 3-dimensional relationships between the cardiac conduction system and surrounding structures, we provide new insights relevant to valvar replacement surgery and ablation therapies. We also offer a practical method for investigation of remodelling in disease, and thus, virtual pathology and archiving. Such data presented as 3D images or 3D printed models, will inform discussions between medical teams and their patients, and aid the education of medical and surgical trainees.

The CXC-motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) represents a promising target for molecular imaging of different CXCR4+ cell types in cardiovascular diseases including atherosclerosis and arterial wall injury. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence, pattern, and clinical correlates of arterial wall accumulation of (68)Ga-Pentixafor, a specific CXCR4 ligand for positron emission tomography (PET). Methods: Data of fifty-one patients who underwent (68)Ga-Pentixafor PET/computed tomography (PET/CT) for non-cardiovascular indications were retrospectively analyzed. Tracer accumulation in the vessel wall of major arteries was analyzed qualitatively and semiquantitatively by blood-pool-corrected target-to-background ratios (TBRs). Tracer uptake was compared with calcified plaque burden and cardiovascular risk factors. Results: Focal arterial uptake of (68)Ga-Pentixafor was seen at 1411 sites in 51 (100%) of patients. (68)Ga-Pentixafor uptake was significantly associated with calcified plaque burden (P<0.0001) and cardiovascular risk factors including age (P<0.0001), arterial hypertension (P<0.0001), hypercholesterolemia (P = 0.0005), history of smoking (P = 0.01), and prior cardiovascular events (P = 0.0004). Both the prevalence (P<0.0001) and signal intensity (P = 0.009) of (68)Ga-Pentixafor uptake increased as the number of risk factors increased. Conclusion:(68)Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT is suitable for non-invasive, highly specific PET imaging of CXCR4 expression in the atherosclerotic arterial wall. Arterial wall (68)Ga-Pentixafor uptake is significantly associated with surrogate markers of atherosclerosis, and is linked to the presence of cardiovascular risk factors. (68)Ga-Pentixafor signal is higher in patients with a high-risk profile, and may hold promise for identification of vulnerable plaque.

Excessive consumption of added sugars in the human diet has been associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), coronary heart disease (CHD) and other elements of the metabolic syndrome. Recent studies have shown that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a critical pathway to metabolic syndrome. This model assesses the health and economic benefits of interventions aimed at reducing intake of added sugars.

In patients receiving direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), emergency treatment like thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke is complicated by insufficient availability of DOAC-specific coagulation tests. Conflicting recommendations have been published concerning the use of global coagulation assays for ruling out relevant DOAC-induced anticoagulation.

To describe acute and mid-term outcomes following presentation with, and treatment for, life-threatening airway bleeding (hemoptysis) in palliated single ventricle congenital heart disease (SV-CHD).

To investigate the relationship of hospital admissions due to unexplained syncope and orthostatic hypotension (OH) with subsequent cardiovascular events and mortality.

Infective endocarditis is a rare disease associated with high morbidity and mortality. As a result, early diagnosis and prompt antibiotic treatment with or without surgical intervention is crucial in the management of such condition.We report a case of missed infective endocarditis of the aortic valve. The patient underwent mechanical aortic valve replacement, with the native valve being sent for histopathological examination. On re-admission 16 months later, he presented with syncope, shortness of breathing and complete heart block. On review of the histopathology of native aortic valve, endocarditis was identified which had not been acted on. The patient underwent redo aortic valve replacement for severe aortic regurgitation.We highlight the importance of following up histopathological results as well as the need for multidisciplinary treatment of endocarditis with a combination of surgical and antibiotic therapy.

In immunocompromised patients, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infections are known to be severe and prolonged, and have significant mortality and morbidity. However, little is known about the clinical courses and treatment strategy of RSV infection in heart transplant recipients. Here, we report a 6-year-old female with heart transplantation who had exhibited prolonged respiratory symptoms and shedding of RSV. She had received everolimus as an immunosuppressant. As immunosuppressants could have been responsible for the prolonged activation of RSV, we converted everolimus to mycophenolate mofetil. After the conversion, RSV promptly disappeared, and her symptoms improved. We speculate that converting the immunosuppressant may be effective for prolonged RSV infection due to the different immunosuppressive mechanisms.

Background -Cardiac transplantation is an excellent treatment for end-stage heart disease. However, rejection of the donor graft, particularly by chronic rejection leading to cardiac allograft vasculopathy, remains a major cause of graft loss. The lymphatic system plays a crucial role in the alloimmune response, facilitating trafficking of antigen presenting cells (APCs) to draining lymph nodes (dLN). The encounter of APCs with T lymphocytes in secondary lymphoid organs is essential for the initiation of alloimmunity. Donor lymphatic vessels are not anastomosed to that of the recipient during transplantation. The pathophysiology of lymphatic disruption is unknown and whether this disruption enhances or hinders the alloimmune responses is unclear. Although histological analysis of lymphatic vessels in donor grafts can yield information on the structure of the lymphatics, the function, however, following cardiac transplantation is poorly understood. Methods -Using Single photon emission computed tomography/CT (SPECT/CT) lymphoscintigraphy, we quantified the lymphatic flow index (LFI) following heterotrophic cardiac transplantation in a murine model of chronic rejection. Results -Ten weeks following transplantation of a minor antigen (HY) gender-mismatched heart graft, the LFI was significantly increased compared with gender-matched controls. Furthermore, the enhanced LFI correlated with an increase in donor cells in the mediastinal dLN; increased lymphatic vessel area; and graft infiltration of CD4(+), CD8(+) T-cells and CD68(+) macrophages. Conclusions -Chronic rejection results in increased lymphatic flow from the donor graft to dLNs, which may be a factor in promoting cellular trafficking, alloimmunity, and cardiac allograft vasculopathy.

Iron is subject to tight homeostatic control in mammals. At the systemic level, iron homeostasis is controlled by the liver-derived hormone hepcidin acting on its target ferroportin in the gut, spleen and liver, which form the sites of iron uptake, recycling and storage, respectively. At the cellular level, iron homeostasis is dependent on the iron regulatory proteins IRP1/IRP2. Unique chemical properties of iron underpin its importance in biochemical reactions involving oxygen. As such, it is not surprising that there are reciprocal regulatory links between iron and oxygen homeostasis, operating both at the systemic and cellular levels. Hypoxia activates the IRP pathway, and in addition suppresses liver hepcidin through endocrine factors that have yet to be fully elucidated. This review summarises current knowledge on the interplay between oxygen and iron homeostasis, and describes recent insights gained into this interaction in the context of the heart. These include the recognition that the hepcidin/ferroportin axis plays a vital role in the regulation of intracellular iron homeostasis as well as regulating systemic iron availability. As is the case for other aspects of iron homeostasis, hypoxia significantly modulates the function of the hepcidin/ferroportin pathway in the heart. Key areas still to understand are the interactions between cardiac iron and diseases of the heart where hypoxia is a recognised component.

Atrial fibrillation and heart failure are 2 of the most common diseases, yet ready means to identify individuals at risk are lacking. The 12-lead ECG is one of the most accessible tests in medicine. Our objective was to determine whether a premature atrial contraction observed on a standard 12-lead ECG would predict atrial fibrillation and mortality and whether a premature ventricular contraction would predict heart failure and mortality.

Idiopathic ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a type of cardiac arrhythmia occurring in structurally normal hearts. The heritability of idiopathic VT remains to be clarified, and numerous genetic factors responsible for development of idiopathic VT are as yet unclear. Variations in FGF12 (fibroblast growth factor 12), which is expressed in the human ventricle and modulates the cardiac Na(+) channel NaV1.5, may play an important role in the genetic pathogenesis of VT.

The contribution of apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) to coronary heart disease (CHD) risk stratification over and above high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) is unclear. We studied the associations between plasma levels of HDL-C and apoA-I, either alone or combined, with risk of CHD events and cardiovascular risk factors among apparently healthy men and women.

Chronic lung diseases such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis are a major and increasing global health burden with a high unmet need. Drug discovery efforts in this area have been largely disappointing and so new therapeutic targets are needed. Transient receptor potential ion channels are emerging as possible therapeutic targets, given their widespread expression in the lung, their role in the modulation of inflammatory and structural changes and in the production of respiratory symptoms, such as bronchospasm and cough, seen in chronic lung disease.

Mycobacterium chimaera is a nontuberculous mycobacterium species commonly found in the environment. Here, we report the first complete genome sequence of a strain from the investigation of invasive infections following open-heart surgeries that used contaminated LivaNova Sorin Stockert 3T heater-cooler devices.

Transthoracic (transapical and transaortic) access is inferior compared with femoral artery access. Percutaneous transcaval aortic access is a reasonable alternative approach that is being used in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in patients with poor iliofemoral anatomy. Duplicated Inferior vena cava (DIVC) is an uncommon abnormality. We report the case of 76-year-old lady with history of severe peripheral vascular disease, morbid obesity, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia and duplicated IVC that had severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. The patient had diffuse bilateral iliac disease precluding the arterial access required for TAVR. Other comorbidities made transthoracic access less desirable. We report the first successful Transcaval TAVR in a patient with DIVC.

Oxidative stress contributes to the pathogenesis of propionic acidemia (PA), a life threatening disease caused by the deficiency of propionyl CoA-carboxylase, in the catabolic pathway of branched-chain amino acids, odd-number chain fatty acids and cholesterol. Patients develop multisystemic complications including seizures, extrapyramidal symptoms, basal ganglia deterioration, pancreatitis and cardiomyopathy. The accumulation of toxic metabolites results in mitochondrial dysfunction, increased reactive oxygen species and oxidative damage, all of which have been documented in patients' samples and in a hypomorphic mouse model. Here we set out to investigate whether treatment with a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant, MitoQ, or with the natural polyphenol resveratrol, which is reported to have antioxidant and mitochondrial activation properties, could ameliorate the altered redox status and its functional consequences in the PA mouse model. The results show that oral treatment with MitoQ or resveratrol decreases lipid peroxidation and the expression levels of DNA repair enzyme OGG1 in PA mouse liver, as well as inducing tissue-specific changes in the expression of antioxidant enzymes. Notably, treatment decreased the cardiac hypertrophy marker BNP that is found upregulated in the PA mouse heart. Overall, the results provide in vivo evidence to justify more in depth investigations of antioxidants as adjuvant therapy in PA.

Fungal infections cause morbidity worldwide and are associated with an unacceptably high mortality despite the availability of antifungal drugs. The incidence of mycoses is rising because of the HIV pandemic and because immunomodulatory drugs are increasingly used to treat autoimmune diseases and cancer. New classes of antifungal drugs have only been partly successful in improving the prognosis for patients with fungal infection. Adjunctive host-directed therapy is therefore believed to be the only option to further improve patient outcomes. Recent advances in the understanding of complex interactions between fungi and host have led to the design and exploration of novel therapeutic strategies in cytokine therapy, vaccines, and cellular immunotherapy, each of which might become viable adjuncts to existing antifungal regimens. In this report, we discuss immunotherapeutic approaches-the rationale behind their design, the challenges in their use, and the progress that is so urgently needed to overcome the devastating effect of fungal diseases.

In recent prospective studies, low plasma levels of apolipoprotein E (apoE) are associated with high risk of dementia. Whether this reflects a causal association remains to be established.

Supplemental oxygen is prescribed to patients with pulmonary fibrosis to normalize oxygen saturations, decrease symptoms and improve quality of life. Along with potential benefits, patients face challenges as they incorporate oxygen into their lives.

To evaluate whether initiation of dexmedetomidine (DEX) infusion before surgical incision and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) versus initiation after CPB had an impact on the incidence of junctional ectopic tachycardia (JET).

To analyze hospitalization and mortality rates due to acute cardiovascular disease (ACVD).

Vascular calcification is prevalent and associated with adverse outcome without available therapy. The benefits of fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-21 on metabolism and atherosclerosis make it a promising therapeutic agent for vascular calcification. We investigated the effects of FGF21 on vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) calcification by culturing rat VSMCs in a calcifying medium for 9days. FGF21 markedly attenuated mineral deposition and apoptosis at the indicated time points. In the presence of FGF21, the expression levels of osteoblastic protein including bone morphogenic protein-2, alkaline phosphatase(ALP), runt-related transcription factor(RUNX)-2 and nuclear factor-kappa B ligand (RANKL) were down-regulated, whereas the expression of osteoprotegerin (OPG) increased. Knockdown of OPG significantly impaired inhibition of FGF21 on apoptosis and the expression of pro-apoptotic genes including caspase-3 and Bax and osteoblastic -promoting markers including ALP, RUNX-2 and RANKL. Furthermore, FGF21 facilitated the phosphoryl of AKT but suppressed P38, while OPG knockdown attenuated the effects. LY29400 (inhibitor of PI3K) abrogated the activation of PI3K/AKT and SB203580 (inhibitor of P38) abolished the inhibition of FGF21 on P38, while alteration was observed in the expression of RUNX-2. FGF21 inhibited VSMCs calcification via OPG/RANKL system, and through P38 andPI3K/AKT pathways.

Cardiovascular diseases are still a major public health concern in Estonia despite the decline in the mortality rate during the past decade. For better preventive strategies we aimed to investigate the prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk factors and their relations with age, gender and ethnicity.

Apolipoproteins B (apoB) and A1 (apoA1) are major protein constituents of low-density and high-density lipoproteins, respectively, and serum concentrations of these apolipoproteins are associated with risk of atherosclerosis. Vitamin A (VA) has been implicated in lipoprotein metabolism. We evaluated the associations of serum apoB, apoA1 and their ratio (apoBAR) with risk of incident acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and the possible modification by serum VA.

Clinical trials are essential tools for the progress of clinical medicine in its diagnostic and therapeutic aspects. Since the first trial in 1948, which related tobacco use with lung cancer, there have been more than 150,000 clinical trials to date in various areas (paediatrics, cardiology, oncology, endocrinology, etc.). This article highlights the importance for all physicians to participate, over the course of their professional career, in a clinical trial, due to the inherent benefits for patients, the progress of medicine and for curricular prestige. The authors have created a synthesis of their experience with clinical trials on hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidaemia and ischaemic heart disease over the course of almost 3 decades. Furthermore, a brief reference has been made to the characteristics of a phase I unit, as well as to a number of research studies currently underway.

Transplantations of various stem cells or their progeny have repeatedly improved cardiac performance in animal models of myocardial injury; however, the benefits observed in clinical trials have been generally less consistent. Some of the recognized challenges are poor engraftment of implanted cells and, in the case of human cardiomyocytes, functional immaturity and lack of electrical integration, leading to limited contribution to the heart's contractile activity and increased arrhythmogenic risks. Advances in tissue and genetic engineering techniques are expected to improve the survival and integration of transplanted cells, and to support structural, functional, and bioenergetic recovery of the recipient hearts. Specifically, application of a prefabricated cardiac tissue patch to prevent dilation and to improve pumping efficiency of the infarcted heart offers a promising strategy for making stem cell therapy a clinical reality.

The term atrial cardiomyopathy, which has been used sporadically in the medical literature, was recently the subject of a detailed Consensus Document prepared by representatives of the European Heart Rhythm Association, Heart Rhythm Society, Asia-Pacific Heart Rhythm Society, and Sociedad Latinoamericana de Estimulación Cardiaca y Electrofisiología. They discussed aspects of the definition, histopathology, atrial-specific physiology, atrial pathology, impact on arrhythmia occurrence, imaging, mapping, and ablation. Here, the authors consider critically the added clinical value of this concept and its meaningfulness. They review evidence implicating atrial cardiomyopathy as an independent contributor to the risk of stroke associated with atrial fibrillation and as a determinant of arrhythmia progression. The issue of classification is considered and the authors discuss how atrial cardiomyopathic properties might guide stroke prevention, rhythm maintenance, and rate control in atrial fibrillation. Carefully designed clinical trials are needed to evaluate these potential applications, and will ultimately define the value of this terminology.

In the care of patients with congenital heart disease, percutaneous interventional treatments have supplanted many surgical approaches for simple lesions, such as atrial septal defect. By contrast, complex congenital heart defects continue to require open-heart surgery. In single-ventricle patients, a staged approach is employed, which requires multiple open-heart surgeries and significant attendant morbidity and mortality. A nonsurgical transcatheter alternative would be attractive.

Anthracycline-induced cardiac toxicity is a cause of significant morbidity and early mortality in survivors of childhood cancer. Current strategies for predicting which children are at greatest risk for toxicity are imperfect and diagnosis of cardiac injury is usually made relatively late in the natural history of the disease. This study aims to identify genomic, biomarker and imaging parameters that can be used as predictors of risk or aid in the early diagnosis of cardiotoxicity.

This article examines how a 6-week mental health resilience course for people with long-term conditions (LTCs; diabetes, heart disease, and arthritis) increased perceived resilience of older participants. This article examines how peer support assisted participants to develop resilience, considers gender issues, examines the importance of course activities, and explores how resilience enhances quality of life. A mixed methods approach was used. A before-and-after questionnaire was administered 3 times, including 3-month follow-up. Interviews were held with 24 program participants, aged 45 to 80 years. Diaries were kept by participants over 3 months. Survey findings showed significant gains in perceived resilience, at the end of the course, with no significant drop-off after 3 months. Interview and diary narratives highlighted positive experiences around well-being, condition management, and social engagement. Peer support was key to effective processes. Challenges concern ongoing support in communities, and considering age and gender variables when researching what improved resilience means to older people with LTCs.

Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) show several extrapulmonary abnormalities such as impairment in the autonomic function (AF). Similarly, the use of respiratory training techniques such as controlled breathing techniques, noninvasive mechanical ventilation (NIMV), and oxygen supplementation for AF modulation in patients with COPD is popular in existing literature. However, the evidence to support their use is nonexistent. A systematic search of studies reporting on the effect of controlled breathing techniques, NIMV, and/or oxygen supplementation techniques on AF outcome parameters was conducted in three online databases: PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. Following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses statement, relevant studies were retained and qualitatively analyzed for evidence synthesis. The methodological quality in these studies was evaluated using the evidence based guideline development (EBRO) checklists per designs provided by the Dutch Cochrane Centre. Eighteen studies met the inclusion criteria of the review and were included and discussed. The evidence synthesis revealed that a strong and moderate level evidence supported oxygen supplementation and slow breathing techniques, respectively, in significantly enhancing the baroreceptor sensitivity (BRS) values in patients with COPD. The effect of the examined techniques on the heart rate variability and muscle sympathetic nerve activity was of a limited or inconsistent evidence. The findings from this review suggest that oxygen supplementation and controlled breathing techniques have profound positive influence on the BRS in patients with COPD. However, it is not fully clear whether these influence translates to any therapeutic benefit on the general AF of patients with COPD in the long term.

An aortic aneurysm is a lethal arterial disease that mainly occurs in the thoracic and abdominal regions of the aorta. Thoracic aortic aneurysms are prevalent in the root/ascending parts of the aorta and can lead to aortic rupture resulting in the sudden death of patients. Understanding the biomechanical and histopathological changes associated with ascending thoracic aortic aneurysms (ATAAs), this study investigates the mechanical properties of the aorta during strip-biaxial tensile cycles. The loss factor-defined as the ratio of dissipated energy to the energy absorbed during a tensile cycle-the incremental modulus, and their anisotropy indexes were compared with the media fiber compositions for aneurysmal (n = 26) and control (n = 4) human ascending aortas. The aneurysmal aortas were categorized into the aortas with bicuspid aortic valves (BAV) and tricuspid aortic valves (TAV). The strip-biaxial loss factor correlates well with the diameter of the aortas with BAV and TAV (for the axial direction, respectively, R² = 0.71, p = 0.0022 and R² = 0.54, p = 0.0096). The loss factor increases significantly with patients' age in the BAV group (for the axial direction: R² = 0.45, p = 0.0164). The loss factor is isotropic for all TAV quadrants, whereas it is on average only isotropic in the anterior and outer curvature regions of the BAV group. The results suggest that loss factor may be a useful surrogate measure to describe the histopathology of aneurysmal tissue and to demonstrate the differences between ATAAs with the BAV and TAV.

Increasing study has suggested that microRNAs (miRNAs) are pivotal regulators in regulating hypoxia-induced injury. miR-142-5p has been suggested as a critical regulator for cellular survival. However, the role of miR-142-5p in regulating hypoxia-induced injury remains unknown. In this study, we aimed to investigate the mechanistic roles of miR-142-5p in regulating cell survival during hypoxia treatment using H9C2 cardiomyoblasts and primary cardiomyocytes. We showed that miR-142-5p expression level was significantly repressed by hypoxia treatment. Overexpression of miR-142-5p during hypoxia induced extensive cell injury and apoptosis whereas suppression of miR-142-5p significantly promoted cell viability and attenuated cell apoptosis with hypoxia treatment. Sirtuin7 (SIRT7) was identified as a direct target gene of miR-142-5p by bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Overexpression of miR-142-5p significantly decreased SIRT7 expression, while suppression of miR-142-5p increased SIRT7 expression. Furthermore, overexpression of SIRT7 protected H9C2 cardiomyoblasts and primary cardiomyocytes against hypoxia-induced injury and apoptosis. The silencing of SIRT7 markedly abrogated the protective effect induced by miR-142-5p suppression. Taken together, these results suggest that downregulation of miR-142-5p alleviates hypoxia-induced injury through upregulation of SIRT7. Our study suggests miR-142-5p/SIRT7 as potential therapeutic targets for ischemic heart disease.

The prevalence of heart failure is increasing in Lebanon but to date there is no systematic evaluation of a disease management intervention.

Hypercholesterolemia confers susceptibility to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Both serum total cholesterol (TC) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) exhibit a strong genetic component (heritability estimates 0.41-0.50). However, a large part of this heritability cannot be explained by the variants identified in recent extensive genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on lipids. Our aim was to find genetic causes leading to high LDL-C levels and ultimately CVD in a large Austrian family presenting with what appears to be autosomal dominant inheritance for familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).

The orientation of the frontal plane T-wave axis (T axis) is a reliable measure of ventricular repolarisation. We investigated the association between T-axis and the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure (HF), atrial fibrillation (AF), stroke and cardiovascular (CVD) mortality.

This study assessed whether aerobic exercise would attenuate microvascular endothelial dysfunction induced by commercial sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption.

Understanding factors associated with treatment intensity may help ensure higher value healthcare.

European Association of Cardiovascular Imaging/Heart Failure Association Cardiac Oncology Toxicity Registry was launched in October 2014 as a European Society of Cardiology multicentre registry of breast cancer patients referred to imaging laboratories for routine surveillance, suspected, or confirmed anticancer drug-related cardiotoxicity (ADRC). After a pilot phase (1 year recruitment and 1 year follow-up), some changes have been made to the protocol (version 1.0) and electronic case report form.

High-intensity interval training (HIIT) improves peak oxygen uptake and left ventricular diastology in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). However, its effects on myocardial strain in HFpEF remain unknown. We explored the effects of HIIT and moderate-intensity aerobic continuous training (MI-ACT) on left and right ventricular strain parameters in patients with HFpEF. Furthermore, we explored their relationship with peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak ).

The two components of disability-adjusted life year (DALY), years of life lost (YLL) and years lived with disability (YLD), are underutilized in evaluating heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) and in assessing the global burden of disease. We aim to describe both the direct (medical) and the indirect (morbidity and mortality) inpatient cost of congestive heart failure in a high-income non-Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Middle Eastern country in relation to YLL and YLD.

Non-ischemic cardiomyopathies (CMPs) comprise heart muscle disorders of different causes with high variability in disease phenotypes and clinical progression. The lack of national structures for the efficient recruitment, clinical and molecular classification, and follow-up of patients with non-ischemic CMPs limit the thorough analysis of disease mechanisms and the evaluation of novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. This paper describes a national, prospective, multicenter registry for patients with non-ischemic CMPs. The main objective of this registry is to create a central hub for clinical outcome studies, a joint resource for diagnostic and therapeutic trials, a common biomaterial bank, and a resource for detailed molecular analyses utilizing patients' biomaterials.

Giant cell myocarditis (GCM), a rapidly progressive inflammation of the myocardium, is associated with fulminant heart failure, refractory ventricular arrhythmias, and conduction system abnormalities. Few case reports have noted orbital myositis as the initial clinical presentation. Our case demonstrates a unique presentation of GCM with only ocular symptoms, which unlike prior studies, rapidly progressed to heart failure, tachyarrhythmias, and conduction disease. Our case necessitated quick recognition and treatment with mechanical support making this the first known case of GCM with successful placement of biventricular assist devices and ultimately with heart transplantation.

Primary cardiac involvement in systemic sclerosis is common, often subclinical, and is associated with significant mortality. We report the case of a patient who developed autoimmune myocarditis at an early stage of systemic sclerosis, who completely recovered from cardiac dysfunction under optimal medical therapy for heart failure and immunosuppression. This challenging case aims at increasing awareness around the fact that the heart is a target organ of scleroderma disease. It also highlights the importance of screening and early diagnosis of cardiac involvement, because a timely treatment may impact the quality of life of these patients and improve their prognosis.

Autonomic dysfunction determines the advance of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and is related to poor outcomes. However, this autonomic imbalance is unknown in patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) even though they have similar symptoms and poor quality of life as DCM patients have. The aim of this study was to evaluate if autonomic and neurovascular controls were altered in RCM patients.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is prevalent and is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The interaction between diastolic dysfunction (DD) and CKD in subjects with preserved systolic function is not well defined. This study sought to determine the association between renal function and DD in subjects with preserved ejection fraction.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor induced angioedema commonly involves the head and neck area. We report a case of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor induced intestinal angioedema in a heart transplant recipient on mTOR immunosuppression. A 36-year-old Caucasian woman with history of heart transplantation on sirolimus, tacrolimus and prednisone presented to the Emergency Department with abdominal pain, one day following lisinopril initiation. A computer tomography scan demonstrated diffuse bowel wall thickening consistent with pancolitis and edema. She was subsequently diagnosed with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor induced angioedema. Patients on mTOR immunosuppression are at higher risk for this potentially life-threatening side effect. Knowledge of this interaction is critical for providers prescribing mTOR agents.

This project was designed to increase family practice clinicians' adherence to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (2013) and American Diabetes Association (ADA, 2016) clinical practice guidelines for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in 40- to 75-year-old adults with type II diabetes (DMII) through interactive education, an electronic alert, and quality improvement sessions on the treatment and management of cholesterol in a family practice primary care setting.

To compare the sodium glucose-cotransporter-2-inhibitor (SGLT-2i) dapagliflozin versus dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP-4i) regarding risk associations of MACE (nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke or cardiovascular [CV] mortality), hospital events for heart failure (HHF), atrial fibrillation, and severe hypoglycemia for type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients in a real-world setting.

Quantification of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in circulating blood derived from a transplanted organ is a powerful approach to monitoring post-transplant injury. Genome transplant dynamics (GTD) quantifies donor-derived cfDNA (dd-cfDNA) by taking advantage of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) distributed across the genome to discriminate donor and recipient DNA molecules. In its current implementation, GTD requires genotyping of both the transplant recipient and donor. However, in practice, donor genotype information is often unavailable. Here, we address this issue by developing an algorithm that estimates dd-cfDNA levels in the absence of a donor genotype. Our algorithm predicts heart and lung allograft rejection with an accuracy that is similar to conventional GTD. We furthermore refined the algorithm to handle closely related recipients and donors, a scenario that is common in bone marrow and kidney transplantation. We show that it is possible to estimate dd-cfDNA in bone marrow transplant patients that are unrelated or that are siblings of the donors, using a hidden Markov model (HMM) of identity-by-descent (IBD) states along the genome. Last, we demonstrate that comparing dd-cfDNA to the proportion of donor DNA in white blood cells can differentiate between relapse and the onset of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). These methods alleviate some of the barriers to the implementation of GTD, which will further widen its clinical application.

Resistin is a cytokine related with inflammation and ischemic heart disease. Physical activity (PA) prevents chronic inflammation and ischemic heart disease. We studied the relationship of serum concentration of resistin with HDL cholesterol, a known biomarker of PA, and with different measures of PA, in a large sample of the general adult population in the Canary Islands.

To determine if a multi-analyte cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) peptide signature can be used to differentiate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and normal aged controls (NL), and to determine if this signature can also predict progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD, analysis of CSF samples was done on the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset. The profiles of 320 peptides from baseline CSF samples of 287 subjects over a 3-6 year period were analyzed. As expected, the peptide most able to differentiate between AD vs. NL was found to be Apolipoprotein E. Other peptides, some of which are not classically associated with AD, such as heart fatty acid binding protein, and the neuronal pentraxin receptor, also differentiated disease states. A sixteen-analyte signature was identified which differentiated AD vs. NL with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.89, which was better than any combination of amyloid beta (1-42), tau, and phospho-181 tau. This same signature, when applied to a new and independent data set, also strongly predicted both probability and rate of future progression of MCI subjects to AD, better than traditional markers. These data suggest that multivariate peptide signatures from CSF predict MCI to AD progression, and point to potentially new roles for certain proteins not typically associated with AD.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most prevalent inherited heart disease. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is the preferred genetic test, but the diagnostic value of screening for minor and candidate genes, and the role of copy number variants (CNVs) deserves further evaluation.

Current data highlight the pathological aspects of excess aldosterone in promoting glomerular hypertrophy, glomerulosclerosis, and proteinuria in diabetic kidney disease (DKD). The role of nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) in DKD is being evaluated in ongoing clinical trials.

Job strain is a major concern in view of its effects among civil servants associated with job burnout, mental fatigue and chronic diseases. The objective of this study was to assess the job strain level among civil servants and examine the effect of job strain on job burnout, mental fatigue and the resulting chronic diseases. A cross-sectional study with a representative sample consisting of 5000 civil servants was conducted from March to August 2014. Using a structured questionnaire, the job strain level, job burnout and mental fatigue were measured by using the Personal Strain Questionnaire (PSQ), Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI) and Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20), respectively. Overall, 33.8% of the civil servants were found to be afflicted with high and moderate job strain. The characteristics of most of the civil servants with a higher-job strain level were as follows: female, Uygur, lower educational level and job title rank, shorter working experience, married marital status, and lower income level. Civil servants suffering from chronic disease mainly had hypertension and coronary heart disease, which accounted for 18.5% of the diseases. Civil servants with a high-job strain level exhibited higher rates of burnout, mental fatigue scores and incidence of chronic diseases. There was a multiple linear regression model composed of three predictor variables in job burnout, which accounted for 45.0% of its occurrence: female gender, lower-income level, higher-job strain in civil servants, the greater the rate of job burnout was. Four factors-male gender, lower-job title rank, higher-job strain, shorter-job tenure of civil servants-explained 25.0% of the mental fatigue model. Binary logistic regression showed that intermediate-rank employees (OR = 0.442, 95% CI: 0.028-0.634; p < 0.05), job tenure of 10-20 years (OR = 0.632, 95% CI: 0.359-0.989; p < 0.05), and low-job strain (OR = 0.657, 95% CI: 0.052-0.698; p < 0.05) were all associated with significantly lower odds of chronic disease. The risk of chronic disease was higher in civil servants with high-job burnout scores and mental fatigue scores compared with civil servants with lower scores (OR = 1.139, 95% CI: 1.012-3.198; OR = 1.697, 95% CI: 1.097-2.962). These data provide evidence for the effects of job strain on job burnout, mental fatigue and chronic diseases among civil servants.

Low cardiac output syndrome remains a serious complication, and accounts for substantial morbidity and mortality in the postoperative course of paediatric patients undergoing surgery for congenital heart disease. Standard prophylactic and therapeutic strategies for low cardiac output syndrome are based mainly on catecholamines, which are effective drugs, but have considerable side effects. Levosimendan, a calcium sensitiser, enhances the myocardial function by generating more energy-efficient myocardial contractility than achieved via adrenergic stimulation with catecholamines. Thus potentially, levosimendan is a beneficial alternative to standard medication for the prevention of low cardiac output syndrome in paediatric patients after open heart surgery.

Hypertension, one of the most common chronic and sporadic conditions, figures among the important worldwide public-health challenges, and it is a major risk for heart disease, stroke, kidney disease and other complications, including dementia. Hypertension is neglected by individuals, and the prevalence of this condition continues to rise across the world. A great number of patients receiving medical intervention is not successfully treated, while adequate curative health services are dependent on the exact update data of the countrywide prevalence of known and undetected cases. This renders elusive the possibility of a public strategy to eradicate hypertension. Accordingly, a global preventive approach in considering the known etiology of the disease established two types of cases hypertension including primary hypertension, which is idiopathic, and secondary hypertension, which is based on a demonstrable organic change in tissues. This is relevant since the secondary hypertension remains the most prevalent and it is associated with physical inactivity and bad nutrition. The environmental condition may be counteracting with an active life style. Physical exercise, which promotes hemodynamic and humoral changes in healthy subjects, may positively impact on hypertensive subjects. Indeed, patients with hypertension might improve their blood pressure, plasma lipoprotein-lipid profile, insulin sensitivity, likely to normotensive people, as well as the regression of the pathology of left ventricular hypertrophy. Exercise training is an important initial or adjunctive step that may be highly efficacious in the prevention and treatment of individuals with hypertension. Herein, we study the role of exercise training in the treatment of hypertension.

To determine the clinical features and patterns of interstitial lung disease.

Lysophosphatidic acids and sphingosine-1-phosphate are bioactive lipids that regulate diverse cellular and physiological processes through actions that are largely mediated by cell surface receptors. The roles played by these lipids in multiple disease processes make the enzymes and receptors involved in their synthesis, inactivation, and signaling attractive targets for pharmacological therapies. In this chapter we describe methods for sensitive accurate quantitation of LPA and S1P levels in biological fluids using liquid chromatography-coupled electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.

Various operational definitions have been proposed to assess the frailty condition among older individuals. Our objective was to assess how practitioners measure the geriatric syndrome of frailty in their daily routine.

Metformin is the most-prescribed oral medication to lower blood glucose worldwide. Yet previous systematic reviews have raised doubts about its effectiveness in reducing risk of cardiovascular disease, the most costly complication of type 2 diabetes. We aimed to systematically identify and pool randomised trials reporting cardiovascular outcomes in which the effect of metformin was 'isolated' through comparison to diet, lifestyle or placebo.

High on-aspirin treatment platelets reactivity (HPR) is a significant problem in long-term secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. We hypothesize that imbalance between platelets MMPs/TIMPs results in cardiovascular disorders. We also explored whether chronically elevated blood glucose affects MMP-2/TIMP-4 release from platelets.

The plasma membrane of mammalian cells is susceptible to disruption by mechanical and biochemical damages that frequently occur within tissues. Therefore, efficient and rapid repair of the plasma membrane is essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis and survival. Excessive damage of the plasma membrane and defects in its repair are associated with pathological conditions such as infections, muscular dystrophy, heart failure, diabetes, and lung and neurodegenerative diseases. The molecular events that remodel the plasma membrane during its repair remain poorly understood. In the present work, we report the development of a quantitative high-throughput assay that monitors the efficiency of the plasma membrane repair in real time using a sensitive microplate reader. In this assay, the plasma membrane of living cells is perforated by the bacterial pore-forming toxin listeriolysin O and the integrity and recovery of the membrane are monitored at 37°C by measuring the fluorescence intensity of the membrane impermeant dye propidium iodide. We demonstrate that listeriolysin O causes dose-dependent plasma membrane wounding and activation of the cell repair machinery. This assay was successfully applied to cell types from different origins including epithelial and muscle cells. In conclusion, this high-throughput assay provides a novel opportunity for the discovery of membrane repair effectors and the development of new therapeutic compounds that could target membrane repair in various pathological processes, from degenerative to infectious diseases.

Pentalogy of Cantrell (PC) is a congenital anomaly characterized by a defect in the lower sternum, anterior diaphragm, and anterior abdominal wall; ectopia cordis; and congenital heart disease. It is a very rare congenital anomaly and the prenatal diagnosis is possible in the beginning of second trimester of pregnancy using the conventional ultrasonography. The prognosis is poor with high rates of perinatal mortality. We present a case report of prenatal diagnosis of PC at 22 weeks and 3 days of gestation. We emphasize the prenatal care follow up in a tertiary reference center, the parental counseling, the planning of delivery, and the management of newborn by a multidisciplinary team, including the description of immediate postnatal surgical repair.

Infants born with potentially life-threatening conditions of omphalocele and gastroschisis may require long-term hospitalization. We aimed to compare the outcomes of these two conditions occurring over a 16-year period (2001-16). It is a retrospective study of 19 newborns undergoing surgery for these two abdominal wall defects (8 patients with omphalocele and 11 cases of gastroschisis). The average birth weights for the newborns with omphaloceles and gastroschisis were 2554.5 g and 2248.6 g respectively. Associated anomalies included trisomy 18, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, congenital heart disease, Meckel's diverticulum, inguinal hernias, renal deformities, limb deformities, cryptorchidism, body stalk anomalies, and closed gastroschisis. The average hospital stay for the newborns with omphaloceles and gastroschisis were 42.6 days 50.2 days respectively. The time to the start of postoperative nutritional supplementation for the newborns with omphaloceles and gastroschisis were 4.3 days for the infants with omphaloceles and 7.3 days for respectively. The survival rates for the newborns with omphaloceles and gastroschisis were similar, 87.5% and 81.8% respectively. Survival rates in omphalocele correlated negatively with associated anomalies. In gastroschisis cases, strict care is necessary when intestinal dilation is observed via fetal sonography.

Low level of testosterone may be associated with cardiovascular diseases in men, as some evidence suggests a protective role for testosterone in cardiovascular system. Little is known about the possible role of serum testosterone in response to reperfusion therapy in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and its relationship with ST-segment recovery. The present study was conducted to evaluate the association of serum testosterone levels with ST-segment resolution following primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) in male patients with acute STEMI.

Epicardial fat tissue has unique endocrine and paracrine functions that affect the cardiac autonomic system. The head-up tilt test (HUTT) is a simple non-invasive measurement that assesses autonomic nervous system dysfunction. We investigated the association between epicardial fat thickness (EFT) and autonomic neural tone, such as vagal tone.

In patients with end-stage left ventricular (LV) heart failure who receive LV assist device (LVAD) implantation, right ventricular (RV) failure represents a possible critical complication that heavily affects morbidity and mortality. Several clinical, laboratory, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic variables have been found to be associated with RV failure occurrence after surgery. Different models and risk scores have been proposed, with poor results. No accordance has ever been reached about RV pre-operative evaluation, and time has come to introduce a standardized systematic protocol for LVAD suitability assessment according to RV function. We analyzed imaging parameters associated with LVAD implantation-related RV failure, in order to identify the minimum number for pre-operative reliable prediction of post-operative RV failure. A few echocardiographic parameters have been identified as the most reliable, or promising, and reproducible tools in this field: free-wall RV longitudinal strain, RV fractional area change, RV sphericity index, and RV ejection fraction with 3D-echocardiography. We propose the Systematic LVAD Implant Eligibility with Non-invasive Assessment protocol-the SIENA protocol-as a new and simple way of pre-operative evaluation of patients candidates to LVAD implantation.

The genetic etiology of human lipid quantitative traits is not fully elucidated, and interactions between variants may play a role. We performed a gene-centric interaction study for four different lipid traits: low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), total cholesterol (TC), and triglycerides (TG).

Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a major unmet medical need that is characterized by the presence of multiple cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular comorbidities. Foremost among these comorbidities are obesity and diabetes, which are not only risk factors for the development of HFpEF, but worsen symptoms and outcome. Coronary microvascular inflammation with endothelial dysfunction is a common denominator among HFpEF, obesity, and diabetes that likely explains at least in part the etiology of HFpEF and its synergistic relationship with obesity and diabetes. Thus, pharmacological strategies to supplement nitric oxide and subsequent cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-protein kinase G (PKG) signaling may have therapeutic promise. Other potential approaches include exercise and lifestyle modifications, as well as targeting endothelial cell mineralocorticoid receptors, non-coding RNAs, sodium glucose transporter 2 inhibitors, and enhancers of natriuretic peptide protective NO-independent cGMP-initiated and alternative signaling, such as LCZ696 and phosphodiesterase-9 inhibitors. Additionally, understanding the role of adipokines in HFpEF may lead to new treatments. Identifying novel drug targets based on the shared underlying microvascular disease process may improve the quality of life and lifespan of those afflicted with both HFpEF and obesity or diabetes, or even prevent its occurrence.

Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is the most widely used parameter to evaluate the cardiac function in patients with heart failure (HF). However, the association between LVEF and contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is still controversial. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate the association of LVEF with CIN and long-term mortality following coronary angiography (CAG) or intervention in patients with HF.

Interleukin 6 receptor (IL-6R), mediating IL-6's biological functions, plays an important role in different diseases such as diabetes, obesity and cardio-vascular diseases. In this study, we investigated the effects of two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), within the IL-6R loci, previously associated with C-reactive protein (CRP) and coronary heart diseases risk, and with controversial effects on lipids traits: SNP rs4845625 and SNP rs4537545. The results showed that both investigated SNPs were antagonistically related with CRP levels; the minor rs4845625*T allele was associated with increased CRP levels (P-value=0.011), while the minor rs4537545*T allele was associated with decreased CRP levels (P-value=0.009). Interestingly, the minor rs4845625*T allele was significantly associated with higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and ApoB levels (P=0.007 and P=0.009 respectively). Haplotype analysis showed that the TC haplotype, having the minor rs4845625*T allele, was related simultaneously with increased levels of CRP, LDL-C and ApoB levels, thus could be considered as a risk factor. Our investigation detects for the first time an independent effect of rs4845625 on LDL-C and ApoB traits, explaining an important range of those traits variability (3.49 and 5.57% respectively). Our findings might be of high clinical significance in pharmacogenomics studies of tocilizumab for which IL-6R is target.Genes and Immunity advance online publication, 27 July 2017; doi:10.1038/gene.2017.16.

We hypothesized that elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels will be independently associated with 20-year cognitive decline in a large population-based cohort.

American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines advise waiting 5 to 7 days before operating on P2Y12 inhibitor-treated acute coronary syndrome patients, to allow dissipation of its antiplatelet effects. Platelet transfusion is often used to restore hemostasis during operations, but its effectiveness and optimal timing are unclear. We investigated the degree of functional gains obtained from platelet supplementation after loading and maintenance of dual antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor and the influence of timing on this strategy.

PCSK9 loss-of-function (LOF) variants allow for the examination of the effects of lifetime reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) on cardiovascular events. We examined the association of PCSK9 LOF variants with LDL-C and incident coronary heart disease and stroke through a meta-analysis of data from 8 observational cohorts and 1 randomized trial of statin therapy.

Recent studies found an immune regulatory role for Y chromosome and a relationship between loss of Y chromosome (LOY) in blood cells and a higher risk of cancer and mortality. Given involvement of immune cells in atherosclerosis, we hypothesized that LOY is associated with the severity of atherosclerotic plaque characteristics and outcome in men undergoing carotid endarterectomy.

Environmental cold-induced hypertension is common, but how to treat cold-induced hypertension remains an obstacle. Transient receptor potential melastatin subtype 8 (TRPM8) is a mild cold-sensing nonselective cation channel that is activated by menthol. Little is known about the effect of TRPM8 activation by menthol on mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis and the vascular function in cold-induced hypertension.

Several immune-mediated diseases have been shown to be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, studies evaluating the association between inflammatory bowel disease and risk of cardiovascular disease reported inconsistent results. We assessed the association between inflammatory bowel disease and risk of ischemic heart disease in a meta-analysis of cohort studies.

Stroke is a costly and debilitating disease that disproportionately affects blacks. Despite the efficacy of statins, evidence suggests racial disparities may exist in statin prescribing.

RASopathies are developmental disease caused by mutations in genes encoding for signal transducers of the RAS-MAPK cascade. The aim of the present study was to provide a comprehensive description of morbidity and mortality in patients with molecularly confirmed RASopathy.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common progressive joint disease in dogs and cats. The goal of OA treatment is to reduce inflammation, minimize pain, and maintain joint function. Currently, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., meloxicam) are the cornerstone of treatment for OA pain, but side effects with long-term use pose important challenges to veterinary practitioners when dealing with OA pain. Palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) is a naturally-occurring fatty acid amide, locally produced on demand by tissues in response to stress. PEA endogenous levels change during inflammatory and painful conditions, including OA, i.e., they are typically increased during acute conditions and decreased in chronic inflammation. Systemic treatment with PEA has anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving effects in several disorders, yet data are lacking in OA. Here we tested a new composite, i.e., PEA co-ultramicronized with the natural antioxidant quercetin (PEA-Q), administered orally in two different rat models of inflammatory and OA pain, namely carrageenan paw oedema and sodium monoiodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA. Oral treatment with meloxicam was used as benchmark.

This study aimed to predict the 10-year impacts of the introduction of pictorial warning labels (PWLs) on cigarette packaging in 2016 in Korea for adults using DYNAMO-HIA.

Among myriad changes occurring during the evolution of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), cardiomyocyte-extracellular matrix interactions from excess collagen may affect microvascular, mechanical, and electrical function.

The Jackson Heart Study (JHS) assesses cardiovascular disease risk factors among African Americans in Jackson, Mississippi. Whether characteristics of JHS participants differ from those of a broader African American population are unknown.

Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) plays an essential protein for immune evasion, contributing to tumor development and progression. Recent studies have reported MET as an upregulator for PD-L1 overexpression through an oncogenic pathway. However, an association between PD-L1 expression with MET has not been reported in gastric cancer.The prognostic significance of PD-L1 and its association with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), microsatellite instability (MSI), and mucin phenotype remain controversial.We performed in situ hybridization for EBV-encoded RNA and immunohistochemistry in tissue microarrays for 394 gastric cancers. A multiplex polymerase chain reaction with five quasimonomorphic markers was performed for MSI.PD-L1 expression was observed in 123 cases (31.2%), and clinicopathological features such as MET overexpression, high pT stage, and a lack of lymphatic invasion represent significant risk factors associated with PD-L1 overexpression in gastric cancers. No associations of EBV, MSI, or mucin phenotype with PD-L1 expression were statistically significant. PD-L1 expression was a strong indicator for worse overall survival (OS) but borderline significant in disease-free survival (DFS). A combined analysis of PD-L1 and MET expression indicated that the PD-L1+/MET+ subgroup showed the worst prognosis when compared to the PD-L1-/MET- subgroup, which had the best clinical outcome. Furthermore, PD-L1 overexpression exhibited poor prognosis in terms of both OS and DFS in EBV-negative, microsatellite stable, and intestinal mucin phenotype tumors. In conclusion, this is the first study to evaluate the overexpression of MET as a risk factor for PD-L1 positivity in gastric cancer tissue as well as the reliability and prognostic relevance of PD-L1/MET co-expression after surgery.

Plasma mannose levels are elevated in subjects with insulin resistance independently of obesity. Here, we found that elevated plasma mannose levels are strong markers of future risk of several chronic diseases including T2D, CVD, and albuminuria, and that it may contribute to their development rather than just being a novel biomarker.

We describe the eleventh major outbreak of foodborne Trypanosoma cruzi transmission in urban Venezuela, including evidence for vertical transmission from the index case to her fetus. After confirming fetal death at 24 weeks of gestation, pregnancy interruption was performed. On direct examination of the amniotic fluid, trypomastigotes were detected. T. cruzi specific-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) also proved positive when examining autopsied fetal organs. Finally, microscopic fetal heart examination revealed amastigote nests. Acute orally transmitted Chagas disease can be life threatening or even fatal for pregnant women and unborn fetuses owing to vertical transmission. There is therefore an urgent need to improve national epidemiologic control measures.

Chagas disease is a public health problem caused by infection with the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. There is currently no effective therapy for Chagas disease. Although there is some evidence for the beneficial effect of bone marrow-derived cells in chagasic disease, the mechanisms underlying their effects in the heart are unknown. Reports have suggested that bone marrow cells are recruited to the chagasic heart; however, studies using chimeric mouse models of chagasic cardiomyopathy are rare.

Thoracoabdominal asynchrony is the nonparallel motion of the ribcage and abdomen. It is estimated by using respiratory inductive plethysmography and, recently, using optoelectronic plethysmography; however the agreement of measurements between these 2 techniques is unknown. Therefore, the present study compared respiratory inductive plethysmography with optoelectronic plethysmography for measuring thoracoabdominal asynchrony to see if the measurements were similar or different.

Myocardial fibrosis is a potential pathophysiological mechanism leading to systemic right ventricular (SRV) deterioration. We hypothesize that circulating levels of collagen deposition markers are elevated in patients with SRV remodeling and this elevation may have a predictive value.

This corrects the article DOI: 10.1038/ncomms15805.

Staphylococcus aureus bacteria are one of the leading microorganisms responsible for nosocomial infections as well as being the primary causative pathogen of skin and wound infections. Currently, the therapy of staphylococcal diseases faces many difficulties, due to a variety of mechanisms of resistance and virulence factors. Moreover, a number of infections caused by S. aureus are connected with biofilm formation that impairs effectiveness of the therapy. Short cationic lipopeptides that are designed on the basis of the structure of antimicrobial peptides are likely to provide a promising alternative to conventional antibiotics. Many research groups have proved a high antistaphylococcal potential of lipopeptides, however, the use of different protocols for determination of antimicrobial activity may be the reason for inconsistency of the results. The aim of this study was to learn how the use of various bacteriological media as well as solvents may affect activity of lipopeptides and their cyclic analogs. Obtained results showed a great impact of these variables. For example, cyclic analogs were more effective when dissolved in an aqueous solution of acetic acid and bovine serum albumin (BSA). The greater activity against planktonic cultures was found in brain-heart infusion broth (BHI) and tryptic-soy broth (TSB), while the antibiofilm activity was higher in the Mueller-Hinton medium.

To investigate the feasibility, procedural success, and outcomes of paravalvular leak (PVL) closure in patients with prior transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR).

To evaluate utility of Doppler echocardiography in the assessment of left ventricular (LV) mid-cavity obstructive (LVMCO) hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).

Atrial transseptal puncture (TSP) for cardiac catheterization procedures remain challenging in children and adults with complex congenital heart disease (CHD).

This study investigated the relationship between weekly working hours and the occurrence of cerebro-cardiovascular diseases using a case-crossover study design.

Left ventricular aneurysm (LVA) is an abnormal dilated heart structure, either congenital or acquired. LVA is a rare cardiac condition with no symptoms in most cases, thus occasionally diagnosed during investigations of other diseases. Its association with certain cardiac complications and sudden cardiac deaths has been reported. However, its role as a cause of sudden unexpected death is rare. The author reported a sudden cardiac death in a 29-year-old man with LVA. Without a significant coronary artery disease and known etiologies of LVA, such an abnormal heart structure in the present case was considered congenital LVA. As no other possible mechanisms of death could be identified other than LVA with its associated pathologic lesions, mural thrombi, and dilated cardiomegaly, his death was attributable to fatal cardiac arrhythmia (most commonly ventricular tachycardia) secondary to LVA.

The acute respiratory viral infections (ARVI) are ranked among the most widespread diseases affecting the children in the early infancy. They account for 60 to 85.4% of all infections recorded in the young children.

To evaluate the association between decrease in resting heart rate (RHR) and occurrence of composite cardiac clinical outcomes in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients after bisoprolol treatment.

Prospective clinical plasma biomarker studies in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) pathogenesis have been hampered by the need for very large cohorts and long follow-up time. The main aim of the present study was to evaluate the association of adrenomedullin, a cardiovascular (CV) stress marker, and incident AAA risk. Prospective longitudinal cohort of middle-aged individuals from the CV cohort of the Malmö Diet and Cancer Study (n = 5551; 1991-1994) was assessed. Plasma concentrations of midregional proadrenomedullin (MR-proADM), C-reactive protein (CRP), and conventional risk factors were measured at baseline. Incidence of AAA was studied up to December 31, 2013. Cumulative incidence of AAA was 1.5% (men 2.9%, women 0.5%). Mean age of individuals with incident AAA was 59.7 years at study entry, and AAA was diagnosed on average 14 years later. Adjusting for age, gender, smoking, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and CRP, MR-proADM (hazard ratio: 1.28; 95% confidence interval: 1.01-1.62) was independently associated with incident AAA. The plasma biomarker MR-proADM seems to be a marker of AAA risk, implying that AAA development may be driven by long-standing CV stress on the aortic wall.

We reviewed published literature to determine the relationship between A1c and cardiovascular disease (CVD) and summarize the need and implications for CVD risk reduction with interventions, focusing in the prediabetic A1c range (<6.5%).

Multi-attribute utility instruments (MAUIs) are widely used to measure utility weights. This study sought to compare utility weights of two popular MAUIs, the EQ-5D-3L and the SF-6D, and inform researchers in the selection of generic MAUI for use with cardiovascular (CVD) patients.

The data presented in this article relate to the research article entitled "Risk of incident myocardial infarction by gender: Interactions with serum lipids, blood pressure and smoking. The Tromsø Study 1979-2012" (Albrektsen et al., 2017) [1]. Data quantify the gender differences in the risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in terms of incidence rate ratios (IRR), in subgroups defined by serum lipids, blood pressure and smoking among persons aged 35-54 years, 55-74 years and 75-94 years, respectively. Data also describe the age- and gender-specific linear associations with the coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors. IRRs for combined categories of age, gender and a CHD risk factor, with each category compared to the same reference group, are also shown. IRRs were calculated as estimates of relative risk in Poisson regression analyses of person-years at risk. Among 33,859 individuals at risk, a total of 622, 1308 and 816 were diagnosed with MI at ages 35-54, 55-74 and 75-94 years, respectively.

Pollen allergens are one of the main contributors to the development and/or aggravation of allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis, and asthma.

The therapeutic goals of atrial fibrillation (AF) patients are to reduce symptoms and prevent severe complications associated with AF. This study compared the efficacy of flecainide versus pilsicainide in reducing the frequency of AF and improving quality of life (QOL) in symptomatic paroxysmal AF patients without structural heart disease.

Rivaroxaban, a direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC), has become available for stroke prevention in patients with non-valular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). However, little is known about its effectiveness and safety when prescribed by general practitioners in real-life settings.

Some patients with Kawasaki disease (KD) develop large coronary aneurysms and subsequent coronary stenosis or obstruction, leading to ischemic heart disease. This study examined the long-term outcomes of patients with KD complicated by large coronary aneurysms.

While the off-label use of implantable medical devices for treating congenital heart disease is not uncommon, the present conditions and outcomes of their off-label use have rarely been described. Therefore, this study evaluated the prevalence and results of using implantable devices off-label to treat congenital heart disease at a single institute.

We studied the results of patient management for left isomerism (LI) and sought to determine factors that may influence survival and prognosis.

Mechanical circulatory support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and ventricular assist device has always been the optimal choice for treating the majority of medically intractable low cardiac output case. We retrospectively investigated our institution's outcomes and variables associated with a high risk of mortality.

Increased serum levels of vitamin D and calcium have been associated with lower risks of colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality. These inverse associations may be mediated by the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and the calcium-sensing receptor (CASR). We investigated genetic variants in VDR and CASR for their relevance to CRC prognosis.

Three-dimensional in vitro cell systems are a promising alternative to animals to study cardiac biology and disease. We have generated three-dimensional in vitro models of the human heart ("cardiac spheroids", CSs) by co-culturing human primary or iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells and fibroblasts at ratios approximating those present in vivo. The cellular organisation, extracellular matrix and microvascular network mimic human heart tissue. These spheroids have been employed to investigate the dose-limiting cardiotoxicity of the common anti-cancer drug doxorubicin. Viability/cytotoxicity assays indicate dose-dependent cytotoxic effects, which are inhibited by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-NIO, and genetic inhibition of endothelial NOS, implicating peroxynitrous acid as a key damaging agent. These data indicate that CSs mimic important features of human heart morphology, biochemistry and pharmacology in vitro, offering a promising alternative to animals and standard cell cultures with regard to mechanistic insights and prediction of toxic effects in human heart tissue.

Constitutive depletion of p21-activated kinase 4 (PAK4) in the mouse causes embryonic lethality associated with heart and brain defects. Given that conventional gene depletion of PAK1 or PAK3 caused functional deficits in the mouse pancreas, while gene depletion of PAK5 or PAK6 did not, we asked if PAK4 might have a functional role in pancreas development. We therefore introduced conditional, Pdx1-Cre-mediated, pancreatic PAK4 gene depletion in the mouse, verified by loss of PAK4 protein expression in the pancreas. PAK4 knock-out (KO) mice were born at Mendelian ratios in both genders. Further, morphological and immunohistochemical examinations and quantifications indicated that exocrine, endocrine and ductal compartments retained the normal proportions and distributions upon PAK4 gene depletion. In addition, body weight records and a glucose tolerance test revealed no differences between WT and PAK4 KO mice. Together, this suggests that PAK4 is dispensable for mouse pancreas development. This will facilitate future use of our Pdx1-Cre-driven conditional PAK4 KO mouse model for testing in vivo potential functions of PAK4 in pancreatic disease models such as for pancreatitis and different pancreatic cancer forms.

Peripartum cardiomyopathy reflects the presence of cardiac failure in the absence of determinable heart disease and occurs in late third trimester of pregnancy or up to 6 months postpartum. A full understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms is lacking, but excess prolactin levels, haemodynamic alterations, inflammation and nutritional deficiencies have all been implicated. Its clinical presentation has distinct overlap with physiological alterations in healthy pregnancy and this presents a diagnostic challenge. However, echocardiography can provide significant benefit in accurate assessment and narrowing of differentials. Pharmacotherapy is broadly aligned with established guidelines for cardiac failure, but specific therapies are indicated for treatment of clinical sequelae. Moreover, an individualistic approach is required based on clinical context to manage delivery. Further research appears imperative to optimise management strategies and reduce disease burden.

The differentiation of brain infarcts by region is important because their cause and clinical implications may differ. Information on the incidence of these lesions and association with cognition and dementia from longitudinal population studies is scarce. We investigated the incidence of infarcts in cortical, subcortical, cerebellar, and overall brain regions and how prevalent and incident infarcts associate with cognitive change and incident dementia.

Advances in perinatal medicine have increased infant survival after very preterm birth. Although this progress is welcome, there is increasing concern that preterm birth is an emerging risk factor for hypertension at young age, with implications for the lifetime risk of cardiovascular disease.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has angiogenic and possibly proatherosclerotic properties. Observationally it is positively associated with cardiovascular disease, although these observations could be confounded or due to reverse causation. We assessed ischemic heart disease (IHD) risk by genetically predicted VEGF, ie, using Mendelian randomization.

Heart failure (HF) is associated with poor cardiac outcomes and mortality. It is not known whether HF leads to poor renal outcomes in patients with normal kidney function. We hypothesized that HF is associated with worse long-term renal outcomes.

To determine insurance-related disparities in hospital care for patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI), heart failure (HF) and pneumonia.

Over the last decade, ankyrin-B has been identified as a prominent player in cardiac physiology. Ankyrin-B has a multitude of functions, with roles in expression, localization, and regulation of proteins critical for cardiac excitability, cytoskeletal integrity, and signaling. Further, human ANK2 variants that result in ankyrin-B loss-of-function are associated with 'Ankyrin-B syndrome', a complex cardiac phenotype that may include bradycardia and heart rate variability, conduction block, atrial fibrillation, QT interval prolongation, and potentially fatal catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. However, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying ankyrin-B function at baseline and in disease is still not fully resolved due to the complexity of ankyrin-B gene regulation, number of ankyrin-B-associated molecules, multiple roles of ankyrin-B in the heart and other organs that modulate cardiac function, and a host of unexpected clinical phenotypes. Here, we summarize known roles of ankyrin-B in the heart and the impact of ankyrin-B dysfunction in animal models and in human disease, as well as highlight important new findings illustrating the complexity of ankyrin-B signaling.

Aim of the study was to analyze the variation of HCV prevalence and genotype distribution and their determinants in people living with HIV who entered care between 1997 and 2015.

The World Heart Federation has undertaken an initiative to develop a series of Roadmaps.

Patients who "talk and die" after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are potentially salvageable. The reported incidences and risk factors for the "talk and die" phenomenon are conflicting, and do not take into account recent improvements in trauma care. The aim of this study was to determine the incidences of "talk and die" after TBI in a modern trauma care system, as well as associated risk factors.

Ficolins have crucial functions in recognizing and eliminating pathogens in innate immunity. In this study, we identified two ficolin-like genes from the oriental river prawn, Macrobrachium nipponense. These genes were designated as MnFico1 and MnFico2. MnFico1 cDNA has 1600 bp, whereas MnFico2 has 1486 bp. In addition to a coiled-coil region or a low complexity region, the two ficolins both contained a signal peptide and a fibrinogen-related domain. qRT-PCR results showed that the highest expression level of MnFico1 expression was in the gills, whereas that of MnFico2 was in the heart. The transcripts of MnFico1 and MnFico2 could both respond to bacteria challenge. The transcription of antilipopolysaccharide factors ALFs (MnALF1 and MnALF2) and crustin genes (MnCru4, MnCru5, MnCru6, and MnCru7) was inhibited in the gills of MnFico1 or MnFico2 knockdown prawns at 24 h Vibrio parahaemolyticus challenge. Recombinant proteins of rMnFico1 and rMnFico2 could bind toward diverse bacteria and agglutinate Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria with the presence of calcium (Ca(2+)). rMnFico1 and rMnFico2 proteins also have lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan binding activity. Both recombinant ficolin proteins could help the prawn to facilitate the clearance of V. parahaemolyticus in vivo. Our results suggested that MnFico1 and MnFico2 might serve as pattern recognition receptors in M. nipponense.

Early recognition of heart disease plays a vital role in saving lives. Heart murmurs are one of the common heart problems. In this study, Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is trained with Modified Neighbor Annealing (MNA) to classify heart cycles into normal and murmur classes. Heart cycles are separated from heart sounds using wavelet transformer. The network inputs are features extracted from individual heart cycles, and two classification outputs. Classification accuracy of the proposed model is compared with five multilayer perceptron trained with Levenberg-Marquardt, Extreme-learning-machine, back-propagation, simulated-annealing, and neighbor-annealing algorithms. It is also compared with a Self-Organizing Map (SOM) ANN. The proposed model is trained and tested using real heart sounds available in the Pascal database to show the applicability of the proposed scheme. Also, a device to record real heart sounds has been developed and used for comparison purposes too. Based on the results of this study, MNA can be used to produce considerable results as a heart cycle classifier.

To compare the image quality of computed tomography angiography (CTA) reconstructed by sinogram-affirmed iterative reconstruction (SAFIRE) with that of advanced modelled iterative reconstruction (ADMIRE) in children with congenital heart disease (CHD).

Non-ST elevation-acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) includes NSTE myocardial infarction and unstable angina. This patient population forms approximately two-thirds of all hospital admissions for ACS in the United States each year and is associated with an in-hospital mortality of 5%. NSTE-ACS is primarily due to an acute change in the supply and demand balance of coronary perfusion and myocardial oxygen consumption, because of the significant coronary artery obstruction presenting as plaque rupture or erosion. Nevertheless, nonobstructive causes may lead to that same phenomenon by excessive myocardial oxygen demand or reduced coronary supply from hypotension, anemia, or sepsis, including transient coronary vasospasm and endocardial dysfunction. The recent clinical application of high-sensitivity troponin biomarker assays and computer tomography angiography shows promise for improving the diagnosis and the risk stratification of patients with angina symptoms. Implementation of recent updates to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guidelines on NSTE-ACS, especially regarding the selection and duration of antiplatelet therapy, have led to improvement in management and outcomes of this disease. Additionally, new adjunctive therapies and approaches to diagnosis and treatment are discussed. Despite the progress made in recent years in the diagnosis and management of NSTE-ACS, morbidity remains high and mortality is significant. Such a fact suggests that future research targeting prevention, early diagnosis, and intervention in these patients is warranted. This article provides a detailed overview of the most recent information on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of NSTE-ACS.

Primary adrenal insufficiency (PAI) is a rare and severe condition requiring lifelong steroid replacement. During acute illness or stressful events, it is important to appropriately adjust glucocorticoid dose; failure to do so may lead to an adrenal crisis. The aim of the study was to explore patients PAI knowledge and understanding of the condition, steroid replacement adjustment during acute illness or stress and provided education.

In September 2008, a disease outbreak characterized by acute, severe gill pathology and peritonitis, involving the gastrointestinal tract, was observed in an Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) farm in north-western Norway. During subsequent sampling in November 2008 and January 2009, chronic proliferative gill inflammation and peritonitis was observed. Cumulative mortalities of 5.6-12.8% and severe growth retardation were observed. Routine diagnostic analysis revealed no diseases known to salmon at the time, but microsporidian infection of tissues was observed.

It is now widely accepted that social and physical environment participate in shaping health. While mortality is used to guide public health policies and is considered as a synthetic measure of population health, few studies deals with the contextual features potentially associated with mortality in a representative sample of an entire country. This paper investigates the possible role of area deprivation (FDep99) and travel time to health care on French cause-specific mortality in a proper multilevel setting.

Degenerative joint disease (DJD) in the lumbar spine is a common condition that is associated with chronic low back pain. Excessive loading of lumbar joints is a risk factor for DJD. Changes in lumbar lordosis significantly redistribute the forces of weight-bearing on the facet joints and the intervertebral discs. However, the relationship between lumbar lordosis and DJD has not been characterized in men and women.

To describe the epidemiology, treatment and adverse events after snakebite in Australia.

Cardiovascular disease remains the most common cause of death worldwide. Enormous progress in the technology and applicability of percutaneous techniques to treat obstructive coronary heart disease has been made, and the number of percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) is increasing. Coronary bifurcations are involved in a substantial number of PCIs and despite recent advances, bifurcation PCI remains a challenge in terms of immediate success and long-term outcome. Angiography has a limited capacity for showing important features of the 3 dimensional coronary vessel anatomy, position of stent struts and exact wire positions and is therefore suboptimal for guiding bifurcation PCI. Intracoronary optical coherence tomography (OCT) provides high resolution and the information gained during PCI is unprecedented compared with angiography guidance and intravascular ultrasound. Areas covered: This review will provide an overview of the use of OCT to guide bifurcation-PCI. Expert commentary: OCT is a promising guide for bifurcation-PCI at each individual step: from planning the strategy (provisional versus two-stent strategy), to guidance during PCI, and finally checking the interventional result. Until dedicated randomized trails are complete, we recommend OCT guidance for interventions in complex coronary bifurcation disease and for imaging when unexpected procedural events occur.

Mitral regurgitation is one of the more common forms of valvular heart disease. Given the expansion of therapies for structural heart disease, new therapies for mitral regurgitation are emerging. An accurate description and classification of mitral disease is important to understand pathology and provide recommendations for therapy. Areas covered: In the modern evaluation of mitral regurgitation, 3-dimensional echocardiography (3DE) and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) play important roles which overcome the prior limitations of 2-dimensional echocardiography. Specifically, an advanced evaluation with these techniques allows accurate characterization of the anatomic etiology of mitral regurgitation and quantification of severity. Furthermore, the role of 3DE during intraprocedural guidance, 'interventional echocardiography,' is expanding. Expert commentary: In our review, we demonstrate a complete diagnostic evaluation of mitral valve dysfunction by 3DE and CMR and describe current implications for invasive therapy and procedural guidance.

Major Aortopulmonary Collateral Artery (MAPCA) as an isolated congenital anomaly, without evidence of any structural heart disease, is a very rare observation. Previously published reports indicate that symptomatic infants with large isolated MAPCA usually present with congestive heart failure or recurrent respiratory tract infections. To the best of our knowledge, the present case of an infant with large isolated MAPCA is a unique case with a diagnostic dilemma due to presentation with severe pulmonary hypertension as a predominant sign. The infant was managed successfully by percutaneous obliteration with amplatzer vascular plugs, along with perioperative and postoperative sildenafil.

Chryseobacterium indologenes, a non-fermentative Gram-negative bacilli distributed widely in nature, is an emerging nosocomial pathogen, inherently resistant to a wide range of antibiotics. There is limited number of C. indologenes infections reported from India. We report a case of C. indologenes associated pneumonia in a three-month-old infant with congenital heart disease. This case highlights the importance of prompt diagnostic workup and targeted antibiotic therapy for its effective management.

Excess adiposity constitute an important public health problem because of the associated increased risk of hypertension, coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes and other disorders. Not only the contribution of general measures of adiposity but also central measures of adiposity have been observed.

Maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) is an important measure of cardiorespiratory capacity of an individual at a given degree of fitness and oxygen availability. Risk of cardiovascular diseases increases with increasing degree of obesity and a low level of VO2max has been established as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular mortality.

Increases in the incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) have aroused strong interest in identifying antioxidants from natural sources for use in preventive medicine. Citrus macroptera (C. macroptera), commonly known as "Satkara", is an important herbal and medicinal plant reputed for its antioxidant, nutritious and therapeutic uses. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cardio-protective effects of ethanol extracts of C. macroptera peel and pulp against isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rats. Male albino Wistar rats (n=36) were pre-treated with peel and pulp extracts (500mg/kg) for 45days. They received a challenge with ISO (85mg/kg) on the 44th and 45th days. Our findings indicated that subcutaneous injection of ISO induced severe myocardial injuries associated with oxidative stress, as confirmed by elevated lipid peroxidation (LPO) and decreased cellular reduced glutathione (GSH) and anti-peroxidative enzymes, including glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase, compared with levels observed in control animals. Pre-treatment with C. macroptera peel and pulp extracts prior to ISO administration however, significantly improved many of the investigated biochemical parameters, i.e., cardiac troponin I, cardiac marker enzymes, lipid profile and oxidative stress markers. The fruit peel extract showed stronger cardio-protective effects than the pulp extract. The biochemical findings were further confirmed by histopathological examinations. Overall, the increased endogenous antioxidant enzyme activity against heightened oxidative stress in the myocardium is strongly suggestive of the cardio-protective potential of C. macroptera.

Despite enzyme replacement therapy, disease progression is observed in patients with Fabry disease. Identification of factors that predict disease progression is needed to refine guidelines on initiation and cessation of enzyme replacement therapy. To study the association of potential biochemical and clinical prognostic factors with the disease course (clinical events, progression of cardiac and renal disease) we retrospectively evaluated 293 treated patients from three international centers of excellence. As expected, age, sex and phenotype were important predictors of event rate. Clinical events before enzyme replacement therapy, cardiac mass and eGFR at baseline predicted an increased event rate. eGFR was the most important predictor: hazard ratios increased from 2 at eGFR <90 ml/min/1.73m2 to 4 at eGFR <30, compared to patients with an eGFR >90. In addition, men with classical disease and a baseline eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73m2 had a faster yearly decline (-2.0 ml/min/1.73m2) than those with a baseline eGFR of >60. Proteinuria was a further independent risk factor for decline in eGFR. Increased cardiac mass at baseline was associated with the most robust decrease in cardiac mass during treatment, while presence of cardiac fibrosis predicted a stronger increase in cardiac mass (3.36 gram/m2/year). Of other cardiovascular risk factors, hypertension significantly predicted the risk for clinical events. In conclusion, besides increasing age, male sex and classical phenotype, faster disease progression while on enzyme replacement therapy is predicted by renal function, proteinuria and to a lesser extent cardiac fibrosis and hypertension.

Angiogenesis, the sprouting of new blood vessels from existing vasculature, involves multiple complex biological processes, and it is an essential step for hemostasis, tissue healing and regeneration. Angiogenesis stimulants can ameliorate human disease conditions including limb ischemia, chronic wounds, heart disease, and stroke. The current strategies to improve the bioavailability of pro-angiogenic growth factors, including VEGF and FGF2, have remained largely unsuccessful. This study demonstrates that small molecules, termed click-xylosides, can promote angiogenesis in the in vitro matrigel tube formation assay and the ex ovo chick chorioallantoic membrane assay, depending on their aglycone moieties. Xyloside treatment enhances network connectivity and cell survivability, thereby, maintaining the network structures on matrigel culture for an extended period of time. These effects were achieved via the secreted xyloside-primed glycosaminoglycans (GAG) chains that in part, act through an ERK1/2 mediated signaling pathway. Through the remodeling of GAGs in the extracellular matrix of endothelial cells, the glycan approach, involving xylosides, offers great potential to effectively promote therapeutic angiogenesis.

Current research on valvular heart repair has focused on tissue-engineered heart valves (TEHV) because of its potential to grow similarly to native heart valves. Decellularized xenografts are a promising solution; however, host recellularization remains challenging. In this study, decellularized porcine aortic valves were implanted into the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) of sheep to investigate recellularization potential. Porcine aortic valves, decellularized with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), were sterilized by supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO2) and implanted into the RVOT of five juvenile polypay sheep for 5 months (n = 5). During implantation, functionality of the valves was assessed by serial echocardiography, blood tests, and right heart pulmonary artery catheterization measurements. The explanted valves were characterized through gross examination, mechanical characterization, and immunohistochemical analysis including cell viability, phenotype, proliferation, and extracellular matrix generation. Gross examination of the valve cusps demonstrated the absence of thrombosis. Bacterial and fungal stains were negative for pathogenic microbes. Immunohistochemical analysis showed the presence of myofibroblast-like cell infiltration with formation of new collagen fibrils and the existence of an endothelial layer at the surface of the explant. Analysis of cell phenotype and morphology showed no lymphoplasmacytic infiltration. Tensile mechanical testing of valve cusps revealed an increase in stiffness while strength was maintained during implantation. The increased tensile stiffness confirms the recellularization of the cusps by collagen synthesizing cells. The current study demonstrated the feasibility of the trans-species implantation of a non-fixed decellularized porcine aortic valve into the RVOT of sheep. The implantation resulted in recellularization of the valve with sufficient hemodynamic function for the 5-month study. Thus, the study supports a potential role for use of a TEHV for the treatment of valve disease in humans.

Given the public health significance of poorly treatable co-morbid major depressive disorders (MDD) among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) and coronary heart disease (CHD), we need to investigate whether strategies to prevent the development of major depression could reduce its burden of disease. We therefore evaluated the effectiveness of a stepped-care program for subthreshold depression in comparison with usual care in patients with DM2 and/or CHD.

Cardiovascular fat (CF) is associated with greater coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Postmenopausal women have greater CF volumes than premenopausal women, and the association between specific CF depot volumes and CHD risk is more pronounced after menopause. Race, central adiposity, and visceral adiposity are important factors that could impact CF volumes. Whether racial differences in CF volumes and in their associations with central (visceral fat [VAT]) and general adiposity (body mass index [BMI]) exist in midlife women have not been addressed before.

Accurately estimating cardiovascular risk is fundamental to good decision-making in cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention, but risk scores developed in one population often perform poorly in dissimilar populations. We sought to examine whether a large integrated health system can use their electronic health data to better predict individual patients' risk of developing CVD.

The rat is an important laboratory animal for physiological, toxicological and pharmacological studies. CRISPR/Cas9 is a simple and efficient tool to generate precise genetic modifications in rats, which will promote the accumulation of rat genetic resources and enable more precise studies of gene function. To monitor Cre/loxP-mediated excision in vivo, we generated a Cre reporter rat strain (Rosa26-imCherry) by knockin of a Cre reporter cassette at Rosa26 locus using CRISPR/Cas9. Rosa26-imCherry rats exhibited inducible expression of the mCherry cassette (imCherry) using the Cre/loxP system, whereas normal rats exhibited ubiquitous expression of eGFP but not mCherry in the whole body. Injection of AAV9-Cre into the hippocampus and skeletal muscle resulted in mCherry expression in virus infected cells. Cre/loxP-mediated mCherry expression was then evaluated by crossing Rosa26-imCherry rats with transgenic rats ubiquitously expressing CAG-Cre, heart-specific a-MHC-Cre transgenic rats, and liver-specific Alb-Cre knockin rats. Finally, using the established system the expression pattern of Cre driven by two endogenous gene promoters (Wfs1-Cre knockin rat, Nestin-Cre knockin rat) was traced. In summary, we demonstrated excision of the loxP-flanked allele in Rosa26-imCherry rats via activation of mCherry expression in the presence of Cre recombinase. This newly established Rosa26-imCherry rat strain represents a useful tool to facilitate Cre-expression pattern determination and tracing experiments. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

To establish a baseline lung ultrasound (LUS) artifact profile using a regionally based protocol in cats without clinical signs of respiratory disease and with radiographically normal lungs compared to a cohort of cats with left-sided congestive heart failure (CHF).

Cardiovascular disease, which today represents the main cause of death worldwide, is a likely candidate for the application of nanotechnology in the near future. Nanocarriers are currently being developed to deliver medicine (smart drugs) to selected targets in cells and tissues of blood vessels and the heart, as well as to aid in diagnosis and screening for early detection and individualized treatment. Other applications of nanotechnology hold promise for the long run, such as using nanodevices for drug delivery or correcting the misfolding of proteins. With super-potent effects, nanoparticles should be able to evoke therapeutic effects at a lower dose and for longer periods. The development of nanodevices and nanocarriers must take an integral approach that considers many properties-physical, chemical, biological, biochemical, anatomical, morphological, physiological, pharmacological, toxicological, mechanical, electrical, magnetic, thermodynamic, and optical-in order to evaluate biocompatibility and therefore avoid toxicological and/or other adverse effects. Intensified research in relation to nanocarriers and other nanotechnology could help reduce morbidity and mortality in cardiovascular disease.

Atrioventricular septal defects are a wide spectrum of cardiac malformations, from partial until complete with one unique atrioventricular valve, atrioventricular valve communication, and leaky left heart valve. Its fast evolution to pulmonary vascular disease calls for early surgical management. Corrective treatment has a high percentage of re-operations and 8.6% mortality.

We present in this article the review of 6 scientific Hot Line sessions of the 2016 European Congress of Cardiology devoted to novel approaches to treatment of heart failure, strategies of prevention of complications of cardiovascular diseases, dyslipidemia, imaging methods of investigation, and stenting in coronary heart disease.

Increase in heart rate triggers most ischemic episodes due to disbalance between myocardial oxygen delivery and consumption. Furthermore, increased heart rate is a modifiable risk factor in patients with chronic heart failure. Ivabradine reduces heart rate by selectively inhibiting the If current of sinoatrial node cells. Recent studies have shown that ivabradine may reduce myocardial ischaemia and its consequences not only through heart rate reduction, but also because of additional pleiotropic effects. This review summarizes last findings that demonstrate variety of ivabradine actions on coronary blood flow and left ventricular function in patients with ischemic heart disease.

to assess the prevalence of some geriatric syndromes and their association with high risk of cardiovascular complications (RCVC) among elderly women.

To evaluate the results of percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), depending on the frequency of exacerbations of COPD.

The study of the diagnostic value of biochemical markers of myocardial stress and inflammation in chronic heart failure (CHF) with different values of the ejection fraction (EF) of the left ventricle (LV).

to assess clinical efficacy of early post discharge rehabilitation of patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in conditions of a polyclinical department of cardiological rehabilitation (stage III of cardiorehabilitation).

to determine risk factors of early cardiovascular complications after beating-heart coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with ischemic coronary disease (IHD) and type two diabetes (D2).

We present two cases of surgical treatment of patients with coronary artery steal syndrom and multifocal atherosclerosis, who previously underwent coronary artery bypass grafting using left internal mammary artery. In both cases carotid-subclavian bypass was performed through supraclavicular access using synthetic prosthesis. This method allowed to restore blood flow in the left internal mammary artery, eliminate recurrent angina pectoris, and improve patients quality of life. The article also contains descriptions of possible methods of surgical correction of this pathology, their advantages and disadvantages.

Remote ischemic preconditioning of the heart exerts anti-necrotic, antiarrhythmic, inotropic effects that have been demonstrated in clinical trials in cardiac surgery both in adults and children. However, so far there is no consensus between cardiologists regarding the impact of remote preconditioning on the incidence of intraoperative myocardial infarctions and mortality in the postoperative period. Until now there is no unanimity concerning choice of remote preconditioning protocol and timing of its application before cardiac surgery.

Medical treatment of most patients with ischemic heart disease is comparable to revascularization by the effect on major adverse cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, cardiovascular and overall mortality), and in the long term, on quality of life. However, revascularization of the left main coronary artery lesion and lesions in the proximal segment of the anterior descending artery leads to a significant increase in life expectancy. ECG methods of detection of such prognostically unfavorable lesions of the coronary arteries can significantly optimize the management, hasten revascularization of the myocardium. In this review we have analyzed ECG methods of diagnosis of prognostically unfavorable lesions of the coronary arteries.

During recent 10-15 years, percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) have reached a new level of efficacy and safety. Rate of serious coronary complications has decreased. That to a greater degree exposes the problem of peripheral complications at the site of arterial approach. At the same time portion of patients older than 75 years in the total pool of PCI constantly increases. Number of patients with pronounced obesity also grows each year. Radial approach for PCI allows to substantially decrease rate of peripheral complications at the account of lowered rate of bleedings, and to shorten duration of hospitalization. In this literature review we present results of a number of relevant clinical studies including those which contained groups of elderly patients and of patients with obesity. We also have summarized main advantages and disadvantages of radial approach as compared with femoral approach for coronary angiography and PCI.

to study serum levels of vascular endothelium growth factor family peptides (VEGF-A, VEGF-C and VEGF-D) and functional gene polymorphisms of VEGFA gene (rs699947 and rs3025039) in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) depending on the presence of ischemic heart disease (IHD).

to assess effect of interval hypoxic-hyperoxic training (IT) on exercise tolerance and quality of life of patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) receiving optimal medical therapy, as well as the safety of IHHT use.

to identify the role of factors of inflammation and myocardial ischemia in the development of atrial fibrillation (AF) in the early postoperative period after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).

to study rates and possible causes of detecting "clean" coronary arteries at elective coronary angiography.

to elucidate predictors of cardiorespiratory complications during the early postoperative period after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD).

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare medical disease in which patients experience increased pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and pulmonary arterial pressure that can result in remodeling of the pulmonary vasculature and heart, and eventually lead to right heart failure and death. As PAH progresses, patients become unable to perform even routine daily tasks without severe shortness of breath (dyspnea), fatigue, dizziness, and fainting (syncope). Treatment strategies largely depend on assessment of an individual patient's WHO Functional Class. The aim of the present study was to determine whether PAH functional decline, as described by the WHO Functional class (FC), is associated with increased healthcare costs for patients.

Unplanned readmission to the pediatric cardiac intensive care unit (CICU) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The Pediatric Early Warning Score (PEWS) predicts ward patients at risk for decompensation but has not been previously reported to identify at-risk patients with cardiac disease prior to ward transfer. This study aimed to determine whether PEWS prior to transfer may serve as a predictor of unplanned readmission to the CICU.

We evaluated antibiotic prescription practices during root canal treatments among general dentists in private dental clinics in Al-Madinah Al Munawarah, Saudi Arabia. Methods: A self-administered, questionnaire about antibiotic used during root canal treatment was distributed to 75 randomly selected general dental practitioners working in private dental clinics in Al-Madinah Al-Munawarah, Saudi Arabia, between March and April 2016. The questionnaires were collected one week later. To compare results of the collected data, Chi-square test was used.  Results: The results revealed that 60% of the dentists prescribed amoxicillin with clavulanic acid as the first choice treatment for endodontic pathosis. Clindamycin (51.6%) was the first choice for patients who were allergic to penicillin. Forty-five percent of the general practitioners prescribed antibiotics for 5 days. Approximately 83.3% of general practitioners prescribed antibiotics for acute apical abscesses. Prophylactic antibiotics were prescribed for cases with a history of infective endocarditis (65.5%), non-controlled diabetes (60.3%), placement of a prosthetic joint in the previous 2 years (46.6%), congenital heart disease (36.2%), and kidney dialysis shunts (34.5%). Conclusion: This study reveals antibiotic abuse in endodontic treatment practice in private dental clinics in Al-Madinah Al Munawarah, Saudi Arabia. General dental practitioners are lacking knowledge regarding the prescription of antibiotics in endodontic  treatment and situations requiring prophylactic antibiotics.

The promising effects of smoking cessation for coronary artery disease (CAD) patients include decreased risks of subsequent clinical events and mortality. However, most CAD patients continue to smoke after being hospitalized for a cardiac event.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a genetic, X-linked recessive disease with an associated cardiomyopathy characterized by myocardial fibrosis leading to heart failure, arrhythmias, and death. Earlier detection and treatment of cardiac involvement in DMD hold potential to improve outcomes. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) extracellular volume (ECV) quantification using T1 mapping is a histologically validated, non-invasive marker of diffuse fibrosis. This study aims to determine the ECV in a pediatric DMD population, and correlate it with metrics of left ventricular function. A retrospective review of pediatric DMD subjects who underwent CMR at a single institution. A total of 47 DMD patients (mean age 14 ± 2 years) were included for analysis. Global myocardial ECV was significantly higher in the DMD group (29 ± 6%) compared with published normal values (24 ± 2%, p = 0.0001). Higher ECV values correlate with indices of left ventricular function, including decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (r = -0.46, p = 0.001) and indexed left ventricular end diastolic volume (r = 0.41, p = 0.004). ECV was not significantly higher in DMD patients with late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) (30 ± 7%) compared to DMD patients without LGE (27 ± 5%, p = 0.0717). CMR T1 mapping is a feasible method for quantification of ECV in patients with DMD. Global myocardial ECV is significantly higher in the DMD population compared to healthy controls and correlates with other metrics of myocardial function. Global myocardial ECV may serve as an important tool to determine cardiac involvement in DMD population and help guide medical management.

Computed tomography (CT)-angiography is routinely performed prior to catheter-based and surgical treatment in congenital heart disease. To date, little is known about the accuracy and advantage of different 3D-reconstructions in CT-data. Exact anatomical information is crucial. We analyzed 35 consecutive CT-angiographies of infants with congenital heart disease. All datasets are reconstructed three-dimensionally using volume rendering technique (VRT) and threshold-based segmentation (stereolithographic model, STL). Additionally, the two-dimensional maximum intensity projection (MIP) reconstructs two-dimensional data. In each dataset and resulting image, measurements of vascular diameters for four different vessels were estimated and compared to the reference standard, measured via multiplanar reformation (MPR). The resulting measurements obtained via the STL-images, MIP-images, and the VRT-images were compared with the reference standard. There was a significant difference (p < 0.05) between measurements. The mean difference was 0.0 for STL-images, -0.1 for MIP-images, and -0.3 for VRT-images. The range of the differences was -0.7 to 1.0 mm for STL-images, -0.6 to 0.5 mm for MIP-images and -1.1 to 0.7 mm for VRT-images. There was an excellent correlation between the STL-, MIP-, VRT-measurements, and the reference standard. Inter-reader reliability was excellent (p < 0.01). STL-models of cardiovascular structures are more accurate than the traditional VRT-models. Additionally, they can be standardized and are reproducible.

Obesity and diabetes are strongly associated with metabolic and cardiovascular disorders including dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, hypertension, and heart failure. Adipose tissue is identified as a complex endocrine organ, which by exerting a wide array of regulatory functions at the cellular, tissue and systemic levels can have profound effects on the cardiovascular system. Different terms including "epicardial," "pericardial," and "paracardial" have been used to describe adipose tissue deposits surrounding the heart. Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a unique and multifaceted fat depot with local and systemic effects. The functional and anatomic proximity of EAT to the myocardium enables endocrine, paracrine, and vasocrine effects on the heart. EAT displays a large secretosome, which regulates physiological and pathophysiological processes in the heart. Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) secretes adipose-derived relaxing factor, which is a "cocktail" of cytokines, adipokines, microRNAs, and cellular mediators, with a potent effect on paracrine regulation of vascular tone, vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, migration, atherosclerosis-susceptibility, and restenosis. Although there are various physiological functions of the EAT and PVAT, a phenotypic transformation can lead to a major pathogenic role in various cardiovascular diseases. The equilibrium between the physiological and pathophysiological properties of EAT is very delicate and susceptible to the influences of intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Various adipokines secreted from EAT and PVAT have a profound effect on the myocardium and coronary arteries; targeting these adipokines could be an important therapeutic approach to counteract cardiovascular disease.

Despite the common occurrence of thrombosis in Fontan circulations, the mid-term thrombotic risk beyond the first two postoperative years is poorly defined especially in total cavo pulmonary Fontan. This study examines the thrombotic incidence and risk beyond the first 2 years after contemporary Fontan surgery. Using a retrospective cohort study design, 89 Fontan patients, 50 male, were included and evaluated with a median of 8.3 years (IQR 6.8-11.4) follow-up. Hospital records were reviewed for known risk factors of thrombosis, thrombotic events, antiplatelet and anticoagulation management, and basic characteristics. Forty seven patients (52%) had a dominant left ventricle, and 28 (32%) had hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Eight patients had thrombotic events post Fontan surgery at a median age of 9 years (IQR 5.6-13), 5.7 (IQR 2.0-9.7) years following surgery, not including events that occurred immediately peri-operatively. Four thrombotic events were intracardiac whereas the remainder were extra-cardiac. There was no significant univariate correlation between thrombosis and the presence of ventricular morphology, pulmonary arterial reconstruction, or type of cavopulmonary anastomosis (lateral tunnel vs. extracardiac conduit). Thrombosis continues to be an important intermediate-term risk even for patients with contemporary Fontan circulations. These results strongly suggest that thrombophilic risk is not dictated purely by vascular pathway and hemodynamic variables. Further investigation into the pathophysiology, individualized risk, and effectiveness of anticoagulation strategies are required in this high risk population.

Purpose: Propranolol is the most widely used treatment for cardiovascular diseases. Dosage range in our patients is usually less than the amount mentioned in references. The aim of the present study was to clarify whether pharmacokinetic differences are able to justify the need for the fewer doses in our patients or not. Methods: Twenty healthy volunteers (10 male) at heart center of Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences were studied. Samples of blood were collected before a single oral dose (40 mg) of Propranolol. Blood samples were taken up to 9 hours after dose. Total plasma concentration of Propranolol was measured by HPLC. Population Pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using population pharmacokinetics modeling software P-Pharm. Results: The mean value for oral plasma clearance (CL/F) was 126.59 ml/hr. The corresponding values for apparent volume of distribution (V/F), t1/2 beta, maximum blood concentration (C max), and time to reach the maximum blood concentration (T max) were 334.12 Lit, 1.98 hr, 40.25 ng/ml, and 1.68 hr, respectively. The observed mean values of V/F of propranolol in the present study were comparable with those reported in the literature. However, the mean values of CL/F of propranolol in current study was significantly higher than those reported in other population (P-value<0.001). Conclusion: This study has confirmed that the pharmacokinetic differences are not able to justify over-responsiveness of Iranian population to propranolol. Pharmacodynamic differences in responding to beta blocker drugs by Renin secretion or having a different sensibility to beta receptors might play a role in making our population have a different response to propranolol.

High-sensitivity C reactive protein (hs-CRP) is a reliable indicator of atherosclerotic diseases and is associated with hyperinsulinaemia. The purpose of this study is to examine the association between hs-CRP and fasting insulin levels in Korean adults not taking medication for hypertension, dyslipidaemia or diabetes, nor provided with specific dietary advice.

The dual-therapy stent combines an abluminal biodegradable drug-eluting coating, with a 'pro-healing' luminal layer. This bioengineered layer attracts circulating endothelial progenitor cells that can differentiate into normal endothelium. Rapid endothelialisation of the stent might allow safe short dual antiplatelet therapy. We aim to assess clinical outcomes in patients treated with this novel device at 2-year follow-up.

Osteopontin (OPN) is an extracellular matrix protein that plays an integral role in myocardial remodelling and has previously been shown to be a valuable biomarker in cardiovascular disease. Because of the concentric myocardial hypertrophy associated with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS), we hypothesised that OPN expression may have a prognostic value in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in smokers and this relationship is complicated by the multiplicity of cardiovascular effects of smoking. However, the relationship between intensity and duration of cigarette smoking and echocardiographic measures of right and left ventricular structure and function has been poorly studied.

In this study, we assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of stress echocardiography (SE), as well as the place of SE in patients with high pretest probability (PTP) of coronary artery disease (CAD).

It is unknown how the creatinine-based renal function estimations differ for dose adjustment cut-offs and risk prediction in patients with heart failure.

Coronary artery disease (CAD) is associated with an increased prothrombotic tendency and is also linked to unfavourably altered clot microstructure. We have previously described a biomarker of clot microstructure (df) that is unfavourably altered in acute myocardial infarction. The df biomarker assesses whether the blood will form denser or looser microstructures when it clots. In this study we assessed in patients with stable chest pain whether df can differentiate between obstructed and unobstructed CAD.

Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is increasingly used to guide myocardial revascularisation. However, supporting evidence regarding its use originates from studies that have enrolled mainly patients with stable angina, while patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) have not been included. Notably, multifactorial microvascular dysfunction and an increased sympathetic tone in patients with ACS may lead to blunted response to adenosine and false-negative results of FFR due to submaximal hyperaemia. This may raise the possibility of deferring treatment of stenosis that instead would have needed dilatation, thus leaving a residual risk of preventable cardiac events. In this literature review, we aim at summarising laboratory and clinical investigations concerning the use of FFR in culprit and non-culprit lesions in ACS. Furthermore, we will report recent data on instantaneous wave-free ratio, an adenosine-free index of functional stenosis severity, in stable coronary artery disease and in patients with ACS.

Although diagnostic coronary angiography (CAG) is performed worldwide, procedure-related myocardial necrosis (PMN) following diagnostic catheter-based procedures has not been well investigated. The aim of this study was to determine clinical and procedural factors associated with PMN, using a high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I (hs-cTnI) assay, and to investigate the clinical implications of PMN.

Accuracy of blood pressure (BP) measurement in clinical settings is one of the most concerns despite of promotion in techniques for the measurement of BP. Our aim was to compare automated versus manual BP measurement in intensive care unit (ICU), coronary care unit (CCU), and emergency room patients.

The improper control of self-care in hypertension imposes a lot of financial burden on the health-care system. On the other hand, the importance of participatory care and high effectiveness of self-management programs have been confirmed. This study was aimed to examine the effect of an educational intervention on self-efficacy, self-care behaviors and blood pressure (BP) of hypertensive obese or overweight women in the primary health-care setting in Isfahan, Iran.

Implanted cardioverter-defibrillators can prevent sudden cardiac death in at-risk patients. In comparison with conventional transvenous systems, entirely subcutaneous implantable cardioverter-defibrillators have produced similar reductions in the rate of sudden cardiac death but with fewer sequelae. An infrequently reported drawback of subcutaneous devices, however, is the potential for generating attenuation artifact during nuclear myocardial perfusion imaging. We had concerns about potential attenuation artifact in a 65-year-old man with coronary artery disease but found that having positioned the pulse generator in the midaxillary zone avoided problems.

Reactive eosinophilia is associated with inflammatory bowel disease, but its association with eosinophilic myocarditis is rare. We report a case of a 42-year-old man who presented with hypovolemic shock secondary to diarrhea and recently diagnosed nonischemic cardiomyopathy (left ventricular ejection fraction, 0.29). Laboratory evaluation revealed marked peripheral eosinophilia. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of subacute-to-chronic myocarditis, and endomyocardial biopsy results were consistent with eosinophilic myocarditis. Colonic biopsy specimens revealed ulcerative colitis and no eosinophils. Hematologic evaluation was negative for an alternative cause of eosinophilia. The patient was given corticosteroids; his diarrhea resolved, but there was no short-term improvement in his ejection fraction, so an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator was placed. Follow-up at one year showed that the patient's left ventricular ejection fraction had improved to 0.42.

A few case reports and case series have documented the outcomes in patients with tricuspid bioprosthetic valvular degeneration who underwent transcatheter implantation of the Medtronic Melody and the Edwards Sapien XT and Sapien 3 valves. In this report, we describe the case of a 49-year-old woman with severe bioprosthetic tricuspid valvular stenosis and multiple comorbidities who underwent transcatheter tricuspid valve replacement with a Sapien 3 valve.

Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, an infrequent neurotoxicity associated with the use of tacrolimus, was first described in 1996, as a reversible syndrome manifested by headache, altered mental function, seizures, and visual disturbances. We describe the case of a 37-year-old woman who developed neurologic symptoms consistent with encephalopathy after treatment with tacrolimus, which was prescribed to maintain immunosuppression after orthotopic heart transplantation. This report also discusses the imaging methods used in the diagnosis of posterior reversible encephalopathy and highlights the difficulty of maintaining immunosuppression and managing medication-related adverse effects, while taking into account the risk of acute rejection after transplantation.

Patent foramen ovale has been associated with multiple pulmonary diseases, such as pulmonary hypertension, platypnea-orthodeoxia syndrome, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. A connection between patent foramen ovale and chronic pulmonary disease was first described more than 2 decades ago in case reports associating patent foramen ovale with more severe hypoxemia than that expected based on the severity of the primary pulmonary disease. It has been suggested that patients with both chronic pulmonary disease and patent foramen ovale are subject to severe hypoxemia because of the right-to-left shunt. Furthermore, investigators have reported improved systemic oxygenation after patent foramen ovale closure in some patients with chronic pulmonary disease. This review focuses on the association between chronic pulmonary disease and patent foramen ovale and on the dynamics of a right-to-left shunt, and it considers the potential benefit of patent foramen ovale closure in patients who have hypoxemia that is excessive in relation to the degree of their pulmonary disease.

We evaluated the association between white blood cell counts and long-term mortality rates in 2,129 patients (mean age, 65.3 ± 13.5 yr; 69% men) who had survived acute myocardial infarction. We obtained white blood cell counts and differential counts of white blood cell subtypes within the first 72 hours of hospital admission. The primary outcome was all-cause death at 1, 5, and 10 years after acute myocardial infarction. In regard to death in the long term, we found significant negative linear associations (lymphocytes), positive linear associations (neutrophils and the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio), and nonlinear U-shaped associations (basophils, eosinophils, monocytes, and total white blood cell count). After multivariate adjustment for the Soroka Acute Myocardial Infarction risk score, lymphocytes (strongest association), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and eosinophils were independently associated with death for up to 10 years after hospital discharge. The independent associations weakened over time. We conclude that lymphocyte count, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and eosinophil count are independently and incrementally associated with death in the long term after acute myocardial infarction.

Psoriasis is an immune-mediated, chronic inflammatory disease affecting multiple aspects of patients' lives. Its epidemiology varies regionally; however, nationwide epidemiologic data on psoriasis depicting profile of Korean patients has not been available to date.

Holt-Oram syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder, characterised by skeletal abnormalities of the upper limb associated with congenital heart defect, mainly atrial and ventricular septal defects. Skeletal defects exclusively affect the upper limbs in the preaxial radial ray distribution and are bilateral and asymmetrical. They range from clinodactyly, absent or digitalised thumb, hypoplastic or absent radii, and first metacarpal to hypoplastic ulna and carpal bone anomalies. Cardiac involvement ranges from asymptomatic conduction disturbances to multiple structural defects. Structural defects are seen in 75% of the cases and include both atrial and ventricular septal defect. More complex cardiac lesions such as Tetrology of Fallot, endocardial cushion defects, double outlet right ventricle, and total anomalous pulmonary venous return are observed uncommonly. An aneurysm of the interatrium septum is an infrequent finding in infants. It has been speculated that atrial septal aneurysm (ASA) is a direct source of thrombus formation. Paradoxical embolism of venous thrombi across a right to left shunt is possibly responsible for the cryptogenic stroke in a patient with ASA. However, coagulopathy associated with cyanotic congenital heart defect may also be contributory. Our patient had a rare association of complex cardiac lesion (tricuspid atresia, pulmonary stenosis, atrial septal aneurysm) with cardiac conductive defects and left parietal infarct along with the usual skeletal abnormalities.

Future health systems require the means to assess and track the neural and physiological function of a user over long periods of time, and in the community. Human body responses are manifested through multiple, interacting modalities - the mechanical, electrical and chemical; yet, current physiological monitors (e.g. actigraphy, heart rate) largely lack in cross-modal ability, are inconvenient and/or stigmatizing. We address these challenges through an inconspicuous earpiece, which benefits from the relatively stable position of the ear canal with respect to vital organs. Equipped with miniature multimodal sensors, it robustly measures the brain, cardiac and respiratory functions. Comprehensive experiments validate each modality within the proposed earpiece, while its potential in wearable health monitoring is illustrated through case studies spanning these three functions. We further demonstrate how combining data from multiple sensors within such an integrated wearable device improves both the accuracy of measurements and the ability to deal with artifacts in real-world scenarios.

Clinical guidelines for managing blood cholesterol were updated in November 2013.

Insufficient and disrupted sleep is linked with cardiovascular and metabolic dysregulation and morbidity. The current study examines the degree to which differences in sleep between black/African American (AA) and white/European American (EA) adults explain racial differences in cardiometabolic (CMB) disease risk. Total sleep time and sleep efficiency (percent of time in bed asleep) were assessed via seven nights of wrist actigraphy among 426 participants in the Midlife in the United States Study (31% AA; 69% EA; 61% female; mean age = 56.8 y). CMB risk was indexed as a composite of seven biomarkers [blood pressure, waist circumference, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), insulin resistance, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), and C-reactive protein]. Covariates included sociodemographic characteristics and relevant health behaviors. Results indicated that AAs relative to EAs obtained less sleep (341 vs. 381 min) and had lower sleep efficiency (72.3 vs. 82.2%) (P values < 0.001). Further, 41% and 58% of the racial difference in CMB risk was explained by sleep time and sleep efficiency, respectively. In models stratified by sex, race was indirectly associated with CMB risk via sleep time and efficiency only among females (explaining 33% and 65% of the race difference, respectively). Indirect effects were robust to alternative model specifications that excluded participants with diabetes or heart disease. Consideration of sleep determinants and sleep health is therefore needed in efforts to reduce racial differences in CMB disease.

Studies of visit-to-visit office blood pressure (BP) variability (OBPV) as a predictor of cardiovascular events and death in high-risk patients treated to lower BP targets are lacking. We conducted a post hoc analysis of SPRINT (Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial), a well-characterized cohort of participants randomized to intensive (<120 mm Hg) or standard (<140 mm Hg) systolic BP targets. We defined OBPV as the coefficient of variation of the systolic BP using measurements taken during the 3-,6-, 9-, and 12-month study visits. In our cohort of 7879 participants, older age, female sex, black race, current smoking, chronic kidney disease, and coronary disease were independent determinants of higher OBPV. Use of thiazide-type diuretics or dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers was associated with lower OBPV whereas angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blocker use was associated with higher OBPV. There was no difference in OBPV in participants randomized to standard or intensive treatment groups. We found that OBPV had no significant associations with the composite end point of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events (n=324 primary end points; adjusted hazard ratio, 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.85-1.69, highest versus lowest quintile) nor with heart failure or stroke. The highest quintile of OBPV (versus lowest) was associated with all-cause mortality (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.92; confidence interval, 1.22-3.03) although the association of OBPV overall with all-cause mortality was marginal (P=0.07). Our results suggest that clinicians should continue to focus on office BP control rather than on OBPV unless definitive benefits of reducing OBPV are shown in prospective trials.

There have been major advances in our knowledge of the contribution of DNA sequence variations to cardiovascular disease and stroke. However, the inner workings of the body reflect the complex interplay of factors beyond the DNA sequence, including epigenetic modifications, RNA transcripts, proteins, and metabolites, which together can be considered the "expressed genome." The emergence of high-throughput technologies, including epigenomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics, is now making it possible to address the contributions of the expressed genome to cardiovascular disorders. This statement describes how the expressed genome can currently and, in the future, potentially be used to diagnose diseases and to predict who will develop diseases such as coronary artery disease, stroke, heart failure, and arrhythmias.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension remains a fatal disease despite the availability of approved vasodilators. Since vascular remodeling contributes to increased pulmonary arterial pressure, new agents that reduce the thickness of pulmonary vascular walls have therapeutic potential. Thus, anti-tumor agents that are capable of killing cells were investigated. Testing of various anti-tumor drugs identified that docetaxel is a superior drug for killing proliferating pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells compared with other drugs including gemcitabine, methotrexate and ifosfamide. The administration of docetaxel to rats with severe pulmonary arterial hypertension reversed pulmonary vascular remodeling and reduced right ventricular pressure. Docetaxel was found to decrease autophagy as monitored by LC3B-II and p62 expression. The siRNA knockdown of Beclin-1 or LC3B potentiated docetaxel-induced cell death and knocking down p62 inhibited the docetaxel effects. The suppressed autophagic process is due to the ability of docetaxel to decrease Beclin-1 protein expression in a proteasome-dependent manner. Mass spectrometry identified a novel docetaxel-inducible Beclin-1 binding protein, namely myosin 9. Knocking down myosin 9 inhibited docetaxel-induced cell death. In damaged right ventricles of PAH rats, docetaxel remarkably promoted the resolution of fibrosis and the regeneration of myocardium. Thus, docetaxel is capable of reversing pulmonary vascular remodeling and resolving right ventricle fibrosis and is a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension and right heart failure.

Since, resistin has been associated with coronary heart disease and with the progression of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), our objective was to determine the correlation between resistin and cardiovascular risk (CVR) in subjects with increasing degrees of hyperglycemia.

The Society of Thoracic Surgeons Congenital Heart Surgery Database (STS CHSD) is the largest congenital and pediatric cardiac surgical clinical data registry in the world. It contains data pertaining to more than 435,000 total operations. The most recent biannual feedback report to participants (Spring 2017, Report of the Twenty-Sixth Harvest) included analysis of data submitted from 127 hospitals in North America. That represents nearly all centers performing pediatric and congenital heart operations in the United States and Canada. As an unparalleled platform for assessment of outcomes and for quality improvement activities in the subspecialty of surgery for pediatric and congenital heart disease, the STS CHSD continues to be a primary data source for clinical investigations and for research and innovations related to quality measurement. In 2016, several major original publications reported analyses of data in the CHSD pertaining to various processes of care, including assessment of variation across centers and associations between specific practices, patient characteristics, and outcomes. Additional publications reported the most recent development, evaluation, and application of metrics for quality measurement and reporting of pediatric and congenital heart operation outcomes and center level performance. Use of the STS CHSD for outcomes research and for quality measurement continues to expand as database participation has grown to include nearly all centers in North America, and the available wealth of data in the database continues to grow. This article reviews outcomes research and quality improvement articles published in 2016 that are based on STS CHSD data.

C-kit(+) cardiac progenitor cells (CPCs) have been shown to be safe and effective in large-animal models and in an early-phase clinical trial for adult patients with ischemic heart disease. However, CPCs have not yet been evaluated in a preclinical model of right ventricular (RV) dysfunction, which is a salient feature of many forms of congenital heart disease.

This study aims to characterize the relationships between the quality of the information given by the physician, the involvement of the patient in shared decision making (SDM), and outcomes in terms of satisfaction and anxiety pertaining to the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

Increased consumption of fruits and vegetables as functional foods leads to the reduction of signs of metabolic syndrome. The aim of this study was to measure and compare cardiovascular, liver, and metabolic parameters following chronic administration of the same dose of anthocyanins either from chokeberry (CB) or purple maize (PM) in rats with diet-induced metabolic syndrome.

Annotation and Image Markup on ClearCanvas Enriched Stroke-phenotyping Software (ACCESS) is a novel stand-alone computer software application that allows the creation of simple standardized annotations for reporting brain images of all stroke types. We developed the ACCESS application and determined its inter-rater and intra-rater reliability in the Stroke Investigative Research and Educational Network (SIREN) study to assess its suitability for multicenter studies.

Depression is a mood disorder characterized by persistent feelings of loss of interest along with a cluster of clinical symptoms. It is a significant public health concern affecting 350 million people worldwide. Depression has an association with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The World Health Organization estimates both depression and coronary artery disease to be the two major causes of disability-adjusted life years by year 2020. Early identification of subclinical cardiovascular disease in people suffering from depression may significantly impact risk stratification of these patients.

The purposes of the study were to investigate and evaluate the differences detected by the patients between the traditional orthognathic approach and the surgery-first one in terms of level of satisfaction and quality of life.

Guidelines recommend cardiac rehabilitation and long-term use of cardiac medications for most patients who have had a myocardial infarction (MI), but adherence to these secondary prevention treatments is suboptimal.

Some but not all randomized controlled trials (RCT) have suggested that percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents may be an acceptable alternative to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery for the treatment of unprotected left main coronary artery disease (ULMCAD). We therefore aimed to compare the risk of all-cause mortality between PCI and CABG in patients with ULMCAD in a pairwise meta-analysis of RCT.

Cardiac implantable electronic device therapy (CIED) has revolutionized treatment for advanced heart failure. Most patients considered for orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT) are treated with implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cardiac resynchronization therapy, or both. These CIEDs are surgically extracted at the time of transplant. Occasionally, CIEDs are incompletely removed. Little is known about the outcomes of post-OHT patients with retained CIED fragments.

The rs6265 (Val66Met) single-nucleotide polymorphism in the BDNF gene has been related to a number of endophenotypes that have in turn been shown to confer risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD). To date, however, very few studies have examined the association of the Val66Met single-nucleotide polymorphism with CVD clinical outcomes.

Approximately 20% of ischemic strokes are associated with clinically apparent atrial fibrillation (AF). Regardless of stroke etiology, detection of AF in patients with ischemic strokes often changes antithrombotic treatment from anti-platelet to oral anticoagulation therapy. The role and the optimum duration of cardiac monitoring to detect AF in patients with strokes presumed due to large vessel atherosclerosis or small vessel disease is unknown. This manuscript describes the design and rationale of the STROKE-AF trial.

The Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction recommends the 99th percentile concentration of cardiac troponin in a normal reference population as part of the decision threshold to diagnose type 1 spontaneous myocardial infarction. Adoption of this recommendation in contemporary worldwide practice is not well known.

Acute heart failure (AHF) is a heterogeneous disorder, with most of the patients presenting with breathlessness along with varying degrees of peripheral edema. The presence of peripheral edema suggests that volume overload is the cause of decompensation leading to AHF, whereas breathlessness in the absence of edema may reflect a "vascular phenotype." This analysis investigated the characteristics, therapeutic response, and outcome of patients with AHF, with and without overt peripheral edema in the RELAX-AHF trial.

Coronary endothelial dysfunction (CED) is an early stage of atherosclerosis and is associated with adverse cardiovascular events. Inflammation may play a role in the development of endothelial dysfunction. To date no study has evaluated the relationship between C-reactive protein and CED. We aimed to determine if C-reactive protein is associated with CED.

Regional variations in mortality can be used to study and assess differences in disease prevalence and factors leading to disease and mortality from different causes. To enable this comparison, it is important to standardize the mortality data to adjust for the effects of regional population differences in age, nationality and country of origin.

Objectives Ageing is often associated with deteriorating mental and physical health and the need for long-term care, creating a fear of ageing. We investigated what people fear most in terms of disabling chronic diseases and their concerns regarding having long-term illnesses. Methods Data were obtained from an online survey of 518 respondents aged 40 years and older residing in Malaysia, which was based on a convenience sample collected in May 2015 to January 2016. Data were analyzed using chi-squared tests and multinomial logistic regression. Results Of the most dreaded diseases, heart disease and cancer are life-threatening; however, dementia, diabetes, and hypertension persist and have a disabling effect for a long time. While there were variations in the diseases feared most across sex, ethnicity, and place of residence, the biggest worry for all respondents with regard to having a long-term illness was that they would become a burden to their family, a concern that superseded fear of dying. Conclusions We found our survey respondents had a fear of chronic diseases and placing a burden on others. Thus, there is a need to provide motivation for people to adopt a healthy lifestyle, to remain healthy.

t Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia (HHT), also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu Disease, is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder that is characterized by the abnormal development of blood vessels. While the pathophysiology underlying the development of pulmonary hypertension (PH) in patients with HHT is not fully understood, it is believed to occur by one of two mechanisms: increases in pulmonary vascular resistance or cardiac output. In the following report, we describe an interesting case of a 26-year-old woman with HHT whose right heart catheterization initially demonstrated PH with elements of both pre- and post-capillary PH. Once the pre-capillary PH component was treated, however, an underlying high-normal cardiac-output state was unmasked. [Full article available at http://rimed.org/rimedicaljournal-2017-08.asp].

The soluble receptor for advanced glycation end products (sRAGE) has been implicated in diabetic vascular complications. We have examined the association between sRAGE and cardiac markers [NT-proBNP and cardiac troponin T (cTnT)] and subclinical vascular markers in older men with and without diabetes.

Left ventricular dysfunction increases left atrial pressures and causes atrial remodeling. In human subjects, increased left atrial size is a powerful predictor of mortality and adverse events in a broad range of cardiac pathologic conditions. Moreover, structural remodeling of the atrium plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atrial tachyarrhythmias. Despite the potential value of the atrium in assessment of functional endpoints in myocardial disease, atrial pathologic alterations in mouse models of left ventricular disease have not been systematically investigated. Our study describes the geometric, morphologic, and structural changes in experimental mouse models of cardiac pressure overload (induced through transverse aortic constriction), myocardial infarction, and diabetes. Morphometric and histological analysis showed that pressure overload was associated with left atrial dilation, increased left atrial mass, loss of myofibrillar content in a subset of atrial cardiomyocytes, atrial cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, and atrial fibrosis. In mice undergoing nonreperfused myocardial infarction protocols, marked left ventricular systolic dysfunction was associated with left atrial enlargement, atrial cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, and atrial fibrosis. Both infarcted animals and pressure overloaded mice exhibited attenuation and perturbed localization of atrial connexin-43 immunoreactivity, suggesting gap junctional remodeling. In the absence of injury, obese diabetic db/db mice had diastolic dysfunction associated with atrial dilation, atrial cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, and mild atrial fibrosis. Considering the challenges in assessment of clinically relevant functional endpoints in mouse models of heart disease, study of atrial geometry and morphology may serve as an important new tool for evaluation of ventricular function.

Sedentary behaviour is increasingly recognised as a health risk. While differences in this behaviour might help explain ethnic differences in disease profiles, studies on sedentary behaviour in ethnic minorities are scarce. The aim of this study was to compare the levels and the socio-demographic and lifestyle-related correlates of objectively measured sedentary time among five ethnic groups in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

The purpose of this article is to review the contemporary evidence surrounding the use of the Ross procedure in young and middle-aged adults and to identify the subset patients who are most likely to derive a benefit from this operation.

Thalassemia-related complications are one of the main factors that increase morbidity and mortality in aging patients with thalassemia. This study was aimed to report the prevalence and clinical risk factors for the complications in thalassemia.

In most human and animal prion diseases the abnormal disease-associated prion protein (PrPSc) is deposited as non-amyloid aggregates in CNS, spleen and lymphoid organs. In contrast, in humans and transgenic mice with PrP mutations which cause expression of PrP lacking a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor, most PrPSc is in the amyloid form. In transgenic mice expressing only anchorless PrP (tg anchorless), PrPSc is deposited not only in CNS and lymphoid tissues, but also in extraneural tissues including heart, brown fat, white fat, and colon. In the present paper, we report ultrastructural studies of amyloid PrPSc deposition in extraneural tissues of scrapie-infected tg anchorless mice. Amyloid PrPSc fibrils identified by immunogold-labeling were visible at high magnification in interstitial regions and around blood vessels of heart, brown fat, white fat, colon, and lymphoid tissues. PrPSc amyloid was located on and outside the plasma membranes of adipocytes in brown fat and cardiomyocytes, and appeared to invaginate and disrupt the plasma membranes of these cell types, suggesting cellular damage. In contrast, no cellular damage was apparent near PrPSc associated with macrophages in lymphoid tissues and colon, with enteric neuronal ganglion cells in colon or with adipocytes in white fat. PrPSc localized in macrophage phagolysosomes lacked discernable fibrils and might be undergoing degradation. Furthermore, in contrast to wild-type mice expressing GPI-anchored PrP, in lymphoid tissues of tg anchorless mice, PrPSc was not associated with follicular dendritic cells (FDC), and FDC did not display typical prion-associated pathogenic changes.

What happens when health research is measured by market size, how does this change the dynamics of medical research, and how is it growth envisioned and managed? Building on my arguments in Drugs for Life: How Pharmaceutical Companies Define our Health, which focused primarily on the development and marketing of mass medications for heart disease, in this article I examine the market dynamics that are used to drive research into and out of psychiatric and other neuromedicines, such as the closing of mental health research at most major pharmaceutical companies. Industry compares entire sectors of medical research to evaluate their relative chances of profits and growth; it is willing to sacrifice a whole region of effective and profitable medicine if it can grow profits more in other regions. Baudrillard, Pignarre and Stengers are used to consider whether this situation can best be described as one of infernal alternatives, and how to analyze the responses of psychiatric leaders.

We aimed at developing and validating a simple, highly repeatable computer-based tool, which could be employed to simulate the effects of an acute mental stress on endocrine and haemodynamic stress responses.

Pheochromocytoma is a rare catecholamine-secreting tumor with a prevalence of 0.1% to 0.6% in hypertensive patients. The classic triad of symptoms is headache, palpitations, and diaphoresis, but clinical presentation varies greatly. Pheochromocytoma can also mimic acute coronary syndrome and heart failure. With surgical resection, appropriate preoperative medical therapy, and 10% malignancy rate, prognosis is usually good. In the present case, a patient presented to the emergency department with symptoms suggesting a non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and was transferred to a tertiary medical center for a cardiac catheterization. No coronary artery disease was found. However, cardiomyopathy developed, which made pheochromocytoma difficult to diagnose at first glance.

Like Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), the Golden Retriever Muscular Dystrophy (GRMD) dog model of DMD is characterized by muscle necrosis, progressive paralysis, and pseudohypertrophy in specific skeletal muscles. This severe GRMD phenotype includes moderate atrophy of the biceps femoris (BF) as compared to unaffected normal dogs, while the long digital extensor (LDE), which functions to flex the tibiotarsal joint and serves as a digital extensor, undergoes the most pronounced atrophy. A recent microarray analysis of GRMD identified alterations in genes associated with lipid metabolism and energy production.

Light chain (AL) amyloidosis frequently involves the kidney, causing significant morbidity and mortality. A pathologic scoring system with prognostic utility has not been developed. We hypothesized that the extent of amyloid deposition and degree of scarring injury on kidney biopsy, could provide prognostic value, and aimed to develop pathologic scoring tools based on these features.

The objective of the present study was to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of tafamidis in treating hereditary transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy.

Automatic heart sound analysis has the potential to improve the diagnosis of valvular heart diseases in the primary care phase, as well as in countries where there is neither the expertise nor the equipment to perform echocardiograms. An algorithm has been trained, on the PhysioNet open-access heart sounds database, to classify heart sounds as normal or abnormal.

Preterm birth (< 37 gestational weeks) reaches 10% of total births worldwide. Early exposure to an ex utero environment can alter organogenesis and maturation in the newborn. This early onset of events can further promote long-term developmental alterations and cardiovascular disease risks. Mechanisms activated during preterm birth and promoting such cardiovascular alterations have just recently been investigated. As a major candidate, the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) can be acutely altered during preterm birth and persistently activated in later life. Further, RAAS alterations may occur as consequence of kidney and heart immaturity to promote adaptive responses, suggesting a dual role of this system on fetal and neonatal organogenesis. Furthermore, fetal or neonatal exposure to deleterious stress conditions can significantly impact on this dual RAAS role, contributing to the establishment of hemodynamic and structural alterations. In this review, clinical and experimental findings describing RAAS components and activation in relationship with preterm birth are discussed. Further clinical and experimental investigations on RAAS activation in the context of preterm birth are needed to better understand this dual role of RAAS on early development and on programming of risks to cardiovascular diseases.

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is an important enzymatic system responsible for the regulation of biological functions, such as the arterial pressure, hydroelectrolytic control and vascular vasodilatation/vasoconstriction. The RAS component ACE2 acts as a mediator in vasoprotection, and it is highly expressed in the kidney, heart, and testis. Recently, the association between the ACE2 and gut microbiota has been discussed. It is shown that the ACE2/Ang-(1-7) axis modulates the immune response, influencing the microbiota composition, and thus being one of the causes for some diseases physiophatologies, such as diarrhea and intestinal inflammatory disease. The association between RAS and gut microbiota seems to have a strong influence on the genesis of cardiovascular diseases, through direct mechanisms, such as nerve stimulation, or indirect, on metabolic parameters, such as weight, adiposity and lipid profile. In this perspective, this review presents the recent evidence regarding the relationship between RAS, gut microbiota and cardiovascular diseases.

It is controversial whether microorganisms play a role in the pathogenesis of large and medium vessel vasculitides (eg, giant cell arteritis [GCA], Takayasu arteritis [TAK] and focal idiopathic aortitis [FIA]). Recent studies have reported the presence of Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) within formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded temporal arteries and aortas of about three-quarters or more of patients with these conditions, and in a minority of controls. In a prospective study, we sought to confirm these findings using DNA extracted from vessels that were harvested under surgically aseptic conditions and snap frozen.

Relationships between apolipoprotein L1 gene (APOL1) renal-risk variants (RRVs) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) remain controversial. To clarify associations between APOL1 and CVD, 2,568 African American Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) participants were assessed for the incidence of CVD events (primary composite including non-fatal myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome not resulting in myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, non-fatal acute decompensated heart failure, and CVD death), renal outcomes, and all-cause mortality.

Heart diseases are one of the leading causes of death in Western Countries and tend to become chronic, lowering the quality of life of the patients and ending up in a massive cost for the Health Systems and the society. Thus, there is a growing interest in finding new technologies that would allow the physician to effectively treat and prevent cardiac illnesses. Metabolomics is one of the new "omics" sciences enabling creation of a photograph of the metabolic state of an individual exposed to different environmental factors and pathologies. This review analyzed the most recent literature about this technology and its application in cardiology in order to understand the metabolic shifts that occur even before the manifestation of these pathologies to find possible early predictive biomarkers. In this way, it could be possible to find better treatments, ameliorate the patient's quality of life, and lower the death rate. This technology seems to be so promising that several industries are trying to set up kits to immediately assess the metabolites variations in order to provide a faster diagnosis and the best treatment specific for that patient, offering a further step toward the path of the development of a tailored medicine.

There are complex and dynamic reflex control networks between the heart and the brain, including cardiac and intrathoracic ganglia, spinal cord, brainstem, and central nucleus. Recent literature based on animal model and clinical trials indicates a close link between cardiac function and nervous systems. It is noteworthy that the autonomic nervous-based therapeutics has shown great potential in the management of atrial fibrillation, ventricular arrhythmia, and myocardial remodeling. However, the potential mechanisms of postoperative brain injury and cardiovascular changes, particularly heart rate variability and the presence of arrhythmias, are not understood. In this chapter, we will describe mechanisms of brain damage undergoing cardiac surgery and focus on the interaction between cardiovascular changes and damage to specific brain regions.

Myocardial infarction (MI) is the main cause of global mortality and morbidity despite the development of therapeutic approaches. ShenZhuGuanXin granules (SG) have been shown to possess cardioprotective effects against coronary heart disease (CHD). However, little is known about its specific mechanism. The present study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of SG in cardiac dysfunction and to demonstrate whether SG can promote myocardium angiogenesis by establishing a rat model of myocardial infarction with left anterior descending ligating.

Hypoxic hepatitis (HH) is characterized by marked and transient elevations in liver enzyme levels in the absence of other potential causes of liver injury. Although rare, it can occur in the presence of hemodynamic instability and hypoxemia in patients with cor pulmonale. We report two cases of perioperative HH in patients with severe pulmonary disease and cor pulmonale. The first case is of a patient with cor pulmonale who underwent hemiarthroplasty for a femur fracture. Transient hypotension developed during spinal anesthesia and severe hypoxemia were observed in the postoperative period. After surgery, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels suddenly increased to 3740 and 817 U/L, respectively. The second case is of a patient with congestive heart failure and cor pulmonale whose blood pressure and oxygen saturation decreased during induction of general anesthesia and after surgery, and AST, ALT, and lactic dehydrogenase levels increased to 1291, 1292, and 2710 U/L, respectively. The liver enzyme levels normalized within 7-14 days in both cases. We speculate the diagnosis of these cases as HH.

Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a third known gasotransmitter. Most of the time it was knows as a poisonous gas. In last 30 years, we are seeing change in its perception. Scientists have discovered its major role in different organ systems. It is endogenously produced in various tissues and its production is influenced by many factors. In normal, physiological conditions only 20% of H2S is in its free form. The role of H2S is very wide. It acts as a signaling molecule, has influence on vascular tone, inflammatory response, scavenges reactive oxygen species, can be cytoprotective and can even reduce the extent of myocardial ischemia. Different studies have shown H2S has considerable influence in pathology of sepsis and its outcome. High free plasma levels of H2S are predictor of unfavorable outcome. Findings show that moderate free plasma levels of H2S have protective effect. Paradoxical very low free plasma levels of H2S, seen in patients with chronic heart failure, are also predictor of severity of disease and poor outcome. We presume that relationship between morbidity/mortality and concentration of H2S has a wide U-shape curve dependence. New researches with discovery of H2S agonists and antagonists could open new ways in understanding different pathologies and ability to treat them. Recent advances in the identification of H2S agonists and antagonists may help in forwarding our understanding of pathomechanisms and hence their treatment.

Disease management programs for heart failure (HF) effectively reduce HF-related hospitalization rates and mortality. Shared medical appointments (SMAs) offer a cost-effective delivery method for HF disease management programs. However, few studies have evaluated this cost-effective delivery method of HF disease management among Veterans with acute HF. We hypothesized that Veterans who attended a multidisciplinary HF-SMA clinic promoting HF self-management, compared those who only received individual treatment through the HF specialty clinic, would have better 12-month hospitalization outcomes.

Evidence from experimental studies showed that Th1, Th2, and Th17 play a pivotal role in hypertension and target organ damage. However, whether changes in the circulating Th1, Th2, and Th17 levels are associated with nondipper hypertension and carotid atherosclerotic plaque in hypertension has yet to be investigated.

Glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL) is a rate-limiting enzyme in synthesis of glutathione. Evidence suggests that genetic variations in the promoter region of genes coding a catalytic subunit (GCLC -129T/C) and a modifier subunit (GCLM -588C/T) of GCL have a functional impact on their transcriptional activity and were associated with various disorders. Hence, we hypothesize whether these two polymorphic variants of GCLM and GCLC genes are associated with the risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD) development in the population of Kazakhstan.

A potential association between type 1 diabetes mellitus and subsequent epilepsy emerged in recent studies. This study aimed to evaluate the possible relationship between type 1 diabetes mellitus and epilepsy using meta-analysis. Pubmed, ISI Web of Knowledge, Embase and Cochrane Library were searched for potential studies of the association between type 1 diabetes mellitus and epilepsy from inception to February 1, 2017. Two investigators independently screened studies for inclusion and extracted related data; discrepancies were solved by consensus. Random effects model of Hazard Ratio (HR) was used to estimate the strength of association. We identified 13 papers from potentially relevant articles of which 3 cohort studies met the inclusion criteria. Random effects meta-analysis showed that type 1 diabetes mellitus was associated with an increased risk of epilepsy with HR = 3.29 (95% CI: 2.61-4.14; I(2) = 0, p = 0.689). Similar results were observed in type 1 diabetes mellitus patents younger than 18-years-old with HR = 2.96 (95% CI: 2.28-3.84; I(2) = 0, p = 0.571). Meta-analysis of 2 studies that adjusted for potential confounders yielded an increased risk of epilepsy with HR = 2.89 (95% CI: 2.26-3.70; I(2) = 0, p = 0.831). The meta-analysis indicates that type 1 diabetes mellitus is associated with a statistically significant increased risk for epilepsy compared to those without type 1 diabetes mellitus.

Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and subclinical cerebrovascular disease are early manifestations of cardiac and brain target organ damage caused by hypertension. This study aimed to investigate whether intensive office systolic blood pressure (SBP) control has beneficial effects on LV morphology and function and subclinical cerebrovascular disease in elderly patients with hypertension.

Elderly women are at high risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart failure. High-sensitivity assays allow detection of cardiac troponin I (hsTnI) well below diagnostic cutoffs for acute coronary syndrome. We investigated the association between these levels with future cardiac events in community-based ambulant white women aged over 70 years initially recruited for a 5-year randomized, controlled trial of calcium supplements.

Cardiovascular diseases have become the leading cause of death in the world. Understanding the development of cardiovascular system and the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases will promote the generation of novel preventive and therapeutic strategy. The Hippo pathway is a recently identified signaling cascade that plays a critical role in organ size control, cell proliferation, apoptosis and fate determination of stem cells. Gene knockout and transgenic mouse models have revealed that the Hippo signaling pathway is involved in heart development, cardiomyocyte proliferation, apoptosis, hypertrophy and cardiac regeneration. The Hippo signaling pathway also regulates vascular development, differentiation and various functions of vascular cells. Dysregulation of the Hippo signaling pathway leads to different kinds of cardiovascular diseases, such as myocardial infarction, cardiac hypertrophy, neointima formation and atherosclerosis. In this review, we briefly summarize current research on the roles and regulation mechanisms of the Hippo signaling pathway in cardiovascular development and diseases.

Accumulating research shows that prenatal exposure to maternal stress increases the risk for behavioral and mental health problems later in life. This review systematically analyzes the available human studies to identify harmful stressors, vulnerable periods during pregnancy, specificities in the outcome and biological correlates of the relation between maternal stress and offspring outcome. Effects of maternal stress on offspring neurodevelopment, cognitive development, negative affectivity, difficult temperament and psychiatric disorders are shown in numerous epidemiological and case-control studies. Offspring of both sexes are susceptible to prenatal stress but effects differ. There is not any specific vulnerable period of gestation; prenatal stress effects vary for different gestational ages possibly depending on the developmental stage of specific brain areas and circuits, stress system and immune system. Biological correlates in the prenatally stressed offspring are aberrations in neurodevelopment, neurocognitive function, cerebral processing, functional and structural brain connectivity involving amygdalae and (pre)frontal cortex, changes in hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis and autonomous nervous system.

This study evaluates and correlates the number of myocarditis focuses and production of cytokines in Rattus norvegicus (Wistar lineage), experimentally infected with T. Cruzi and treated with Phosphorus.

Oxidative stress (OS) may be a key mechanism underlying development of AF in experimental studies, but data in humans remains limited.

Cells ensure their protein quality control through the proteostasis network. Aging and age-related diseases, such as neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases, have been associated to the reduction of proteostasis network efficiency and, consequently, to the accumulation of protein misfolded aggregates. The decline in protein homeostasis has been associated with the development and progression of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, cardiac hypertrophy, cardiomyopathies, and heart failure. Exercise training is a key component of the management of patients with cardiovascular disease, consistently improving quality of life and prognosis. In this review, we give an overview on age-related protein aggregation, the role of the increase of misfolded protein aggregates on cardiovascular pathophysiology, and describe the beneficial or deleterious effects of the proteostasis network on the development of cardiovascular disease. We subsequently discuss how exercise training, a key lifestyle intervention in those with cardiovascular disease, could restore proteostasis and improve disease status.

Heart failure is the main chronic disease in cardiology. Its prognosis remains poor despite improvements in its management that allow patients to live increasingly longer with this disease, alternating periods of stability and episodes of decompensation. Treatment guidelines are regularly updated to integrate new results of recent trials that are likely to influence routine care. These guidelines are proposed with different classes of recommendations and difference levels of evidence. It is of paramount importance to summarize the guidelines to make them accessible to the vast majority of cardiologists and easier to read to promote their application. Among the main novelties of the last set of European guidelines for the management of heart failure, we note the proposal for a new classification based on the level of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with a new class, called heart failure with mid-range ejection fraction (LVEF 40-50 %), new algorithms for diagnosis and treatment, including the diagnosis of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, a special focus on preventive strategies, the management of comorbidities including iron deficiency, simplification of the indications for cardiac resynchronization therapy, and finally a growing attention to patient pathways and to the management of hospital discharge. According to these guidelines, it is important that the physician choose the appropriate medications; but it is equally fundamental that the patient understands the disease and acquires self-care skills needed to become a real player in its management. This requires patient education, which is underdeveloped in France.

Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) play important roles in many diseases. However, their roles in sporadic thoracic aortic aneurysm (STAA) are unclear. Therefore, the objective of this study was to construct an lncRNA-mRNA network and dissect lncRNAs that might contribute to the pathogenesis of STAA.

To identify the causative agents in 3 large-scale outbreaks of encephalitis and death among farmed bamboo rats (Rhizomys pruinosus). The routine bacterial culture and identification were performed. There were no significant pathogenic bacteria isolated from the brain, heart, liver, spleen, lung, or kidney of diseased bamboo rats. Using PCR-based methods, we excluded the following as causative agent: pox virus, herpesvirus, adenovirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, rabies virus, and sendai virus. Furthermore, the homogenate from the diseased bamboo rats was subjected to viral metagenomic analysis which revealed 48506 filtered viral reads annotated to Akabane virus (AKAV) with >75% nucleotide identity, suggesting the presence of AKAVs in bamboo rats. Five novel AKAV isolates were successfully isolated and characterized. Furthermore the newly isolated AKAV isolate was used to demonstrate that it can reproduce the severe encephalitic and pneumonic disease in bamboo rats and mice. The findings add to the better understanding of AKAV epidemiology and to the prevention and control of Akabane diseases in China.

Clinical experience and observational studies suggest that individuals with coeliac disease are at increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), but the precise mechanism for this is unclear. Laboratory studies suggest that it may relate to tissue transglutaminase antibodies (tTGAs). Our aim was to examine whether seropositivity for tTGA and endomysial antibodies (EMAs) are associated with incident CHD in humans.

Individuals with repaired tetralogy of Fallot develop pulmonary regurgitation that may cause symptoms (dyspnea, chest pain, palpitations, fatigue, presyncope, and syncope), impair functional capacity, and may affect health-related quality of life. Surgical pulmonary valve replacement is the gold standard of treatment although transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement is becoming more common. Patients want to know whether less invasive options are as good.

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among all racial and ethnic populations in the USA. Cardiovascular risks and cardioprotective factors have been disparately estimated among Asian American subpopulations.

Cardiomyocyte apoptosis is initiated by various cellular insults and accumulated cardiomyocyte apoptosis leads to the pathogenesis of heart failure. Excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) provoke apoptotic cascades. Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is an important antioxidant enzyme that converts cellular ROS into harmless products. In this study, we demonstrate that MnSOD is down-regulated upon hydrogen peroxide treatment or ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Enhanced expression of MnSOD attenuates cardiomyocyte apoptosis and myocardial infarction induced by I/R injury. Further, we show that miR-23a directly regulates the expression of MnSOD. miR-23a regulates cardiomyocyte apoptosis by suppressing the expression of MnSOD. Our study reveals a novel model regulating cardiomyocyte apoptosis which is composed of miR-23a and MnSOD. Our study provides a new method to tackling apoptosis related cardiac diseases.

Presence of purulent sputum during an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD) is considered sufficient indication for starting empirical antibiotics. We investigated the relationship between detection of potentially pathogenic bacteria (PPB) using sputum culture or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and clinical response and sought the risk factors for PPB growth.

Ovarian cancer is often diagnosed at advanced stages, when poorly responsive to standard treatment. First-line treatment consists in schemes including cytoreductive surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy schemes with platinum and taxane derivatives. Second-line regimens are based on gemcitabine and liposomal doxorubicin. Third line is often not worthwhile because of the high toxicity with poor response to treatment. Previously, we showed that paclitaxel (PTX) carried in non-protein lipid core nanoparticles (LDE) resembling the chemical structure of LDL has remarkably reduced toxicity. Here, the hypothesis was tested whether PTX-LDE could safely benefit patients in third-line treatment setting. Fourteen women unresponsive to second-line chemotherapy for ovarian cancer, aged 61 ± 10 years, clinical stage IV and TqNqM1, were included. PTX-LDE was administered at 175 mg/m(2), 3/3 week dose. Patients were submitted to clinical examinations before each chemotherapy cycle. Serum biochemistry and imaging examinations to monitor disease progression were performed. In total, 74 cycles of chemotherapy were done and, in all cycles, clinical or laboratorial toxicities were not observed. Median progression-free survival (PFS) was 3.0 months (95% CI 2.0-3.9). In four patients, PFS was >6 months and in 2 > 1 year. The unpreceded, striking absence of toxicity and consistently long PFS, compared to previous results, indicate that at least 4 among 14 patients had tumor arrest by the treatment and clear benefit of PTX-LDE at third-line setting. The absence of observable toxicity allows dose escalating to improve response to treatment, as perspective to be tested in the ensuing studies.

Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) followed by transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is an alternative to surgery in patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS) and coronary artery disease (CAD). In many, the coronary arteries are severely calcified and best treated with rotational atherectomy (RA). However, RA is not routinely performed in severe AS patients due to safety concerns. There is a paucity of data on the safety of RA in severe AS patients with calcific CAD.

Diabetic foot, one of the most common and debilitating manifestations of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), is the leading cause of worldwide non-traumatic lower extremity amputations. Diabetics who are at risk of ulceration are currently mainly identified by a thorough clinical examination of the feet, which typically does not show clear symptoms during the early stages of disease progression. In this study, we used a non-linear dynamics tool, gait entropy (GaitEN), in addition to traditional linear gait analysis methods, to investigate gait alterations amongst diabetic patients with combinations of three types of T2DM related complications: retinopathy, diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) and nephropathy. Peak plantar pressure (PPP) was not significantly different in the group with DPN as compared to the control group (diabetics with no complications, CONT) in the forefoot region (DPN: mean±SD: 396±69.4kPa, CONT: 409±68.9kPa), although it was significantly lower in the heel region (DPN: mean±SD: 285±43.1.4kPa, CONT: 295±61.8kPa). On the other hand, gait entropy was significantly lower for the DPN compared to CONT group (DPN: 0.95±0.34, CONT: 1.03±0.28, p<0.05). The significant low entropy was maintained when neuropathy was combined with either retinopathy or nephropathy. For the group with all three complications (ALL-C), the entropy was higher than CONT (ALL-C: 1.07±0.26). This may indicate an intrinsic sensorimotor feedback mechanism for the DPN patients to regulate their gait. However, this feedback gets weaker as patients develop multiple complications. Further analysis with longer walking time and different speeds is needed to verify the entropy results.

Adult-onset severe asthma is characterized by highly symptomatic disease despite high intensity asthma treatments. Understanding of the underlying pathways of this heterogeneous disease needed for the development of targeted treatments. Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) is a statistical technique to identify gene profiles in heterogeneous samples.

Congestive heart failure is the leading cause of hospital readmissions. We aimed to assess adherence to and effectiveness of a telehealth protocol designed to prevent hospital admissions for congestive heart failure.

More than 60 genetic risk variants predisposing to coronary artery disease (CAD) have been confirmed. The genetic risk for CAD is related to the number of genetic risk variants present and can be expressed as a genetic risk score (GRS), by summing the product of the number of high-risk variants inherited by each individual times the log of the odds ratio. Studies show risk stratification for CAD, based on the GRS, is more discriminatory than conventional risk factors and predicts the response to statin therapy. A prospective trial showed individuals with high GRS had 91% greater risk of cardiac events, and individuals with a healthy lifestyle had 46% fewer cardiac events than an unfavorable lifestyle. GRS remains the same throughout one's lifetime because your deoxyribonucleic acid does not change. GRS, determined as early as birth from saliva, is inexpensive and could transform the prevention of CAD in low- and middle-income countries.

Bleeding events remain a significant and frequent complication of continuous-flow left ventricular assist devices (VADs). von Willebrand factor (VWF) is critical to hemostasis by acting as a bridging molecule at sites of vascular injury for normal platelet adhesion as well as promoting platelet aggregation under conditions of high shear. Clinical and experimental data support a role for acquired von Willebrand disease in VAD bleeding episodes caused by shear-induced qualitative defects in VWF. Pathologic shear induces VWF unfolding and proteolysis of large multimers into smaller less hemostatic multimers via ADAMTS13 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with a thrombospondin type 1 motif, member 13). This review outlines the pathobiology of VWF disruption in the context of VADs as well as current diagnostic and management strategies of the associated acquired von Willebrand disease.

Frequent premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) can induce or worsen left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction.

Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) are in vitro models with the clear advantage of their human origin and suitability for human disease investigations. Limitations however include an incomplete characterization and variability reported in different cell lines and laboratories.

We investigated the impact of iterative beam-hardening correction (IBHC) with advanced modeled iterative reconstruction (ADMIRE) of ultra-low radiation-dose tin filtered (Sn100 kVp) CACS acquisitions on image quality, calcium quantification, and risk classification.

The GERS (Exercise Rehabilitation and Sports Group of the French Society of Cardiology) has decided to update current guidelines regarding the practice of EKG stress tests. Since the last update dates from 1997, the GERS judged it necessary to integrate data from new works and advancements made in the last 20 years. Good clinical practices and safety conditions are better defined regarding the structure, location, material, staff competency, as well as convention with hospital structures. The diagnosis of coronary artery disease remains the principal indication for a stress test. Interpretation of the results is crucial-it must be multivariate and provide either a low, intermediate or strong probability of the existence of coronary lesions, taking into account the studied population (risk factors, age, sex and symptoms). Several new indications for a stress test have been defined for the assessment of cardiac pathologies. With such indications, the use of gas expiration measurements is highly recommended in order to provide a precise prognosis for all the various cardiac pathologies : congenital, ischemic, valvular, cardiomyopathies, congestive heart failure, rhythm and conduction disorders, pacemaker fine-tuning, or pulmonary hypertension. Indications for stress tests and contraindications are defined according to different population subgroups, for instance : athletes, women, children, the elderly, asymptomatic patients, diabetics, hypertensive patients, PAD patients, or in the context of a non-cardiac surgery pre-op visit. The new guidelines (due for publication soon) are considerably different from those dating from 1997 and further pinpoint the relevance and importance of an EKG stress test within the arsenal of complementary cardiologic exams. With the improvements made in providing diagnostic value in CAD, as well as better prognostic value for any underlying pathology, the indication for an EKG stress test has extended to all cardiovascular disease.

Nearly 20 years have passed from the concept to clinical development of percutaneous aortic valve replacement, starting from an idea considered "stupid" of Professor Alain Cribier in Rouen. After a first phase of compassionate implantation, large randomized trials PARTNER and COREVALVE US have allowed TAVI to impose itself in the European and American recommendations in patients inoperable or considered with high surgical risk. Next European recommendations on the management of valvular heart diseases expected in 2017 should take into account the positive results observed in intermediate risk patients in the PARTNER 2 and SURTAVI studies, recently adopted in the US recommendations. Randomized trials in "all coming" patients are already on their way, and the future of TAVI is to be the reference treatment for a vast majority of patients with aortic stenosis.

This report evaluates the scientific literature on caffeine with respect to potential cardiovascular outcomes, specifically relative risks of total cardiovascular disease (CVD), coronary heart disease (CHD) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI), effects on arrhythmia, heart failure, sudden cardiac arrest, stroke, blood pressure, hypertension, and other biomarkers of effect, including heart rate, cerebral blood flow, cardiac output, plasma homocysteine levels, serum cholesterol levels, electrocardiogram (EKG) parameters, heart rate variability, endothelial/platelet function and plasma/urine catecholamine levels. Caffeine intake has been associated with a range of reversible and transient physiological effects broadly and cardiovascular effects specifically. This report attempts to understand where the delineations exist in caffeine intake and corresponding cardiovascular effects among various subpopulations. The available literature suggests that cardiovascular effects experienced by caffeine consumers at levels up to 600 mg/day are in most cases mild, transient, and reversible, with no lasting adverse effect. The point at which caffeine intake may cause harm to the cardiovascular system is not readily identifiable in part because data on the effects of daily intakes greater than 600 mg is limited. However, the evidence considered within this review suggests that typical moderate caffeine intake is not associated with increased risks of total cardiovascular disease; arrhythmia; heart failure; blood pressure changes among regular coffee drinkers; or hypertension in baseline populations.

A rat model of left atrial stenosis-associated pulmonary hypertension due to left heart diseases was prepared to elucidate its mechanism.

We aimed to clarify the impact of metabolic syndrome (MetS) as assessed by different definitions on the cardiovascular mortality in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD).

Infants with congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) are at risk of brief resolved unexplained event (BRUE) and sleep-disordered breathing. The aim of the study was to explore sleep in infants with CMS with a particular focus on heart rate (HR) variability.

Kidney transplant (KT) is the treatment of choice for most patients with chronic kidney disease, but this has a high cardiovascular mortality due to traditional and nontraditional risk factors, including vascular calcification. Inflammation could precede the appearance of artery wall lesions, leading to arteriosclerosis and clinical and subclinical atherosclerosis in these patients. Additionally, mineral metabolism disorders and activation of the renin-angiotensin system could contribute to this vascular damage. Thus, understanding the vascular lesions that occur in KT recipients and the pathogenic mechanisms involved in their development could be crucial to optimize the therapeutic management and outcomes in survival of this population. This review focuses on the following issues: (1) epidemiological data framing the problem; (2) atheromatosis in KT patients: subclinical and clinical atheromatosis, involving ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure, stroke and peripheral vascular disease; (3) arteriosclerosis and vascular calcifications; and (4) potential pathogenic mechanisms and their therapeutic targets.

To analyse the methods of reasoning with regard to patients' experiences of living with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

NCX1 is an antiporter membrane protein encoded by the SLC8A1 gene. In the heart, it maintains cytosolic Ca(2+) homeostasis, serving as the primary mechanism for Ca(2+) extrusion during relaxation. Dysregulation of NCX1 is observed in end-stage human heart failure. In this study we used affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry in rat left ventricle lysates to identify novel NCX1 interacting proteins in the heart. Two screens were conducted using: 1) anti-NCX1 against endogenous NCX1 and 2) anti-His with His-TF-NCX1cyt recombinant protein as bait. The respective methods identified 112 and 350 protein partners, of which several were known NCX1 partners from the literature, and 29 occurred in both screens. Ten novel protein partners (DYRK1A, PPP2R2A, SNTB1, DMD, RABGGTA, DNAJB4, BAG3, PDE3A, POPDC2, STK39) were validated for binding to NCX1, and two partners (DYRK1A, SNTB1) increased NCX1 activity when expressed in HEK293 cells. A cardiac NCX1 protein-protein interaction map was constructed. The map was highly connected, containing distinct clusters of proteins with different biological functions, where 'cell communication' and 'signal transduction' formed the largest clusters. The NCX1 interactome was also significantly enriched with proteins/genes involved in 'cardiovascular disease' which can be explored as novel drug targets in future research. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Heart failure (HF) is a common, serious chronic condition with high morbidity, hospitalisation and mortality. The healthcare systems of England and the northern Italian region of Lombardy share important similarities and have comprehensive hospital administrative databases linked to the death register. We used them to compare admission for HF and mortality for patients between 2006 and 2012 (n = 37,185 for Lombardy, 234,719 for England) with multistate models. Despite close similarities in age, sex and common comorbidities of the two sets of patients, in Lombardy, HF admissions were longer and more frequent per patient than in England, but short- and medium-term mortality was much lower. English patients had more very short stays, but their very elderly also had longer stays than their Lombardy counterparts. Using a three-state model, the predicted total time spent in hospital showed large differences between the countries: women in England spent an average of 24 days if aged 65 at first admission and 19 days if aged 85; in Lombardy these figures were 68 and 27 days respectively. Eight-state models suggested disease progression that appeared similar in each country. Differences by region within England were modest, with London patients spending more time in hospital and having lower mortality than the rest of England. Whilst clinical practice differences plausibly explain these patterns, we cannot confidently disentangle the impact of alternatives such as coding, casemix, and the availability and use of non-hospital settings. We need to better understand the links between rehospitalisation frequency and mortality.

We describe the first two cases of HTLV-1 associated uveitis to be associated with HTLV-1c subtype infection.

Autophagy is an adaptive response to cardiomyocytes survival under stress conditions. MicroRNAs (miRNAs, miR) have been described to act as potent modulators of autophagy. To investigate whether and how miR-199a modulated autophagy in vitro, primary cardiomyocytes were treated under starvation to induce autophagy. Results showed that down-regulation of miR-199a was sufficient to activate cardiomyocytes autophagy. MiR-199a suppressed cardiomyocytes autophagy through direct inhibiting heat shock protein family A member 5 (Hspa5). Forced overexpression of Hspa5 recovered the inhibitory effect of miR-199a in autophagy activation. Our results suggested miR-199a as an effective suppressor of starvation-induced cardiomyocytes autophagy and that Hspa5 was a direct target during this process. These results extend the understanding of the role and pathway of miR-199a in cardiomyocytes autophagy, and may introduce a potential therapeutic strategy for the protection of cardiomyocytes in myocardial infarction or ischemic heart disease.

Infective endocarditis (IE) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Patients with adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) have an increased risk of developing IE. The aim of this study is to describe the incidence, predictors of outcome and mortality associated with IE in ACHD in a contemporary cohort.

Norwood and hybrid procedure are two options available for initial palliation of patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS). Our study aimed to assess potential differences in right ventricular (RV) function and pulmonary artery dimensions using cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) in survivors with HLHS.

To quantify the gap in the distribution of ideal cardiovascular health (CVH) between men and women accounting for comorbidities, socioeconomic and psychological confounding factors.

In patients with gout, maintaining too low serum uric acid (SUA) level with urate-lowering therapy is a concern because uric acid is thought to be neuroprotective. However, the relation between SUA and dementia remains debated. This study aimed to investigate the impact of SUA level on the incidence of dementia.

Alcohol-related pancreatitis is associated with a disproportionately large number of hospitalisations among GI disorders. Despite its clinical importance, genetic susceptibility to alcoholic chronic pancreatitis (CP) is poorly characterised. To identify risk genes for alcoholic CP and to evaluate their relevance in non-alcoholic CP, we performed a genome-wide association study and functional characterisation of a new pancreatitis locus.

Intrauterine growth restriction following prenatal hypoxia exposure leads to a higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease in later life. Our aim was to evaluate cardiac susceptibility and its pathophysiological mechanisms following acute myocardial infarction (MI) in adult rat offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia. Male and female rat offspring which experienced normoxia (21% O2) or hypoxia (11% O2) in utero underwent sham or MI surgery at 12 weeks of age. Echocardiographic data revealed that both sexes had systolic dysfunction following MI surgery, independent of prenatal hypoxia. Male offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia, however, had left ventricular dilatation, global dysfunction and signs of diastolic dysfunction following MI surgery as evidenced by increased left ventricular internal diameter during diastole (MI effect, P < 0.01, Tei index (MI effect, P < 0.001) and E/E' ratio (prenatal hypoxia or MI effect, P < 0.01). In contrast, diastolic dysfunction in female offspring was not as evident. Cardiac superoxide levels were increased only in prenatal hypoxia-exposed male offspring. Cardiac sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase2a levels, a marker of cardiac injury and dysfunction, were decreased in both male and female MI groups independent of prenatal hypoxia. Prenatal hypoxia increased cardiac ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2) protein levels, while MI reduced RYR2 in only male offspring. In conclusion, male offspring exposed to prenatal hypoxia had an increased susceptibility to ischemic myocardial injury involving cardiac phenotypes similar to heart failure involving diastolic dysfunction in adult life compared to both offspring from healthy pregnancies and their female counterparts.

Transport of macromolecules across vascular endothelium and its modification by fluid mechanical forces are important for normal tissue function and in the development of atherosclerosis. However, the routes by which macromolecules cross endothelium, the hemodynamic stresses that maintain endothelial physiology or trigger arterial disease, and the dependence of transendothelial transport on hemodynamic stresses are controversial. Here we visualised pathways for macromolecule transport and determined the effect on these pathways of different types of flow. Endothelial monolayers were cultured under static conditions or on an orbital shaker producing different flow profiles in different parts of the wells. Fluorescent tracers that bound to the substrate after crossing the endothelium were used to identify transport pathways. Maps of tracer distribution were compared with numerical simulations of flow to determine effects of different shear stress metrics on permeability. Albumin-sized tracers dominantly crossed the cultured endothelium via junctions between neighbouring cells, high-density-lipoprotein-sized tracers crossed at tricelluar junctions whilst low-density-lipoprotein-sized tracers crossed through cells. Cells aligned close to the angle that minimised shear stresses across their long axis. The rate of paracellular transport under flow correlated with the magnitude of these minimised transverse stresses, whereas transport across cells was uniformly reduced by all types of flow. These results contradict the long-standing two-pore theory of solute transport across microvessel walls and the consensus view that endothelial cells align with the mean shear vector. They suggest that endothelial cells minimise transverse shear, supporting its postulated pro-atherogenic role. Preliminary data show that similar tracer techniques are practicable in vivo.

Precision medicine is an emerging approach to disease treatment and prevention that takes into account individual variability in the environment, lifestyle, and genetic makeup of patients. Patient-specific human induced pluripotent stem cells hold promise to transform precision medicine into real-life clinical practice. Lamin A/C (LMNA)-related cardiomyopathy is the most common inherited cardiomyopathy in which a substantial proportion of mutations in the LMNA gene are of nonsense mutation. PTC124 induces translational read-through over the premature stop codon and restores production of the full-length proteins from the affected genes. In this study we generated human induced pluripotent stem cells-derived cardiomyocytes from patients who harbored different LMNA mutations (nonsense and frameshift) to evaluate the potential therapeutic effects of PTC124 in LMNA-related cardiomyopathy.

The prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is relatively high. Deterioration of renal function in CKD leads to accumulation of indoxyl sulfate, a tryptophan metabolite produced by gut microbiota. It is acknowledged that indoxyl sulfate is capable to stimulate oxidative stress, which in turn contributes to the progression of vascular disorders and its resultant coronary artery disease. Recent research have demonstrated the adverse effects of indoxyl sulfate on the heart, together with the acceleration of vascular dysfunction, suggesting that indoxyl sulfate might contribute to high prevalence of CVD in CKD. The present mini review has focused on the potential mechanisms by which indoxyl sulfate exerts this pro-oxidant effects on the cardiovascular system. The action of indoxyl sulfate are related to multiple NADPH oxidase-mediated redox signaling pathways, which have been implicated in the pathophysiology of different forms of CVD, including chronic heart failure, arrhythmia, atherosclerotic vascular disease and coronary calcification. Future therapeutic options are discussed, including modulating gut microbial flora and blocking responsible pathophysiologic pathways.

Patients at high risk of thrombotic events after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) may potentially benefit from intensified antiplatelet therapy. However, more potent antiplatelet therapy would be expected to only overcome risk that is mediated by high platelet reactivity (PR). We used mediation analysis to determine the contribution of residual PR to the 2-year risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE; the composite of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or stent thrombosis) associated with clinical risk factors after PCI with drug-eluting stents (DES) in 8,374 patients from the prospective, multicenter Assessment of Dual AntiPlatelet Therapy with Drug-Eluting Stents (ADAPT-DES) registry. Residual PR on clopidogrel, as measured by the VerifyNow P2Y12 point-of-care assay, was included as a continuous linear mediator variable in Cox proportional hazards regression. Among 7 factors independently associated with 2-year MACE, residual PR partly mediated the effect of diabetes (13.4% attributable risk), anemia (22.9% attributable risk), and acute coronary syndromes (7.3% attributable risk). A PR-mediated effect inversely affected the MACE risk associated with smoking (10.4% attributable risk). The increased ischemic risk of chronic kidney disease, multivessel disease, and previous myocardial infarction were not mediated by residual PR. In conclusion, high residual PR mediates little or none of the increased 2-year MACE risk associated with baseline risk factors in patients treated with clopidogrel after successful PCI with DES. Intensifying antiplatelet therapy is therefore unlikely to substantially mitigate the excess ischemic risk from these variables.

Liposome-based drug formulations represent an exciting avenue of research as they increase efficacy to toxicity ratios. Current formulations rely on passive accumulation to the disease site where drug is taken up by the cells. Ligand mediated targeting increases the net accumulation of liposomes, however, an unexplored benefit is to potentially refine pharmacodynamics (PD) of a drug specifically to different cell types within diseased tissue. As a model system, we engineered cardiomyocyte- (I-1) and endothelial-targeted (B-40) liposomes to carry a VEGFR2 inhibitor (PTK787), and examined the effect of cell type-specific delivery on both pharmacokinetics (PK) and PD. Neovascularization in post-myocardial infarction was significantly reduced by B-40 liposomes loaded with PTK787 as compared to animals injected with I-1 liposomes, and profoundly more as compared to free PTK787. This study thus shows that the intraorgan targeting of drugs through cell type-specific delivery holds substantial promise towards lowering the minimal efficacious dose administered systemically.

Although calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is associated with coronary atherosclerosis, it is not known whether early CAVD is associated with coronary microcirculatory dysfunction (CMD). We sought to investigate the relationship between myocardial blood flow reserve (MBFR) - a measure of CMD, and early CAVD in the absence of obstructive epicardial coronary artery disease. We also determined whether this relationship was independent of coronary artery disease (CAD) and hs-CRP, a marker of systemic inflammation.

The objectives of this study were: 1) To compare the prevalence of cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors among different phenotypes of Spondyloarthritis (SpA); 2) To assess the differences in cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors between two geographical areas, i.e. Northern Europe vs. Mediterranean region; 3) To identify potential predictive factors for high Framingham Risk Score regarding disease features in SpA and geographical area.

In this article we compare and contrast the current recommendations, and highlight the important differences, in the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/Heart Rhythm Society, European Society of Cardiology, and Canadian Cardiovascular Society atrial fibrillation (AF) guidelines. Although many of the recommendations of the various societies are similar, there are important differences in the methodologies underlying their development and the specific content. Specifically, key differences can be observed in: (1) the definition of nonvalvular AF, which subsequently affects anticoagulation choices and candidacy for non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants; (2) the symptom score used to guide management decisions and longitudinal patient profiling; (3) the stroke risk stratification algorithm used to determine indications for oral anticoagulant therapy; (4) the role of acetylsalicylic acid in stroke prevention in AF; (5) the antithrombotic regimens used in the context of coronary artery disease, acute coronary syndromes, and percutaneous coronary intervention; (6) the rate control target and medications recommended to achieve the target; and (7) the role of "first-line" catheter ablation, open surgical ablation, and left atrial appendage exclusion.

A persistent left superior vena cava (SVC) results from failed obliteration of the left common cardinal vein during embryogenesis, with a spectrum of anatomic variants. We report a rare case of bilateral SVCs connected by a bridging vein and with a direct left SVC connection to the left atrial appendage in an asymptomatic patient without hypoxemia or associated congenital heart disease on transthoracic echocardiography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. A multimodality imaging approach is valuable to search for associated anomalies and to confirm this anatomic variant, which has important implications on vascular procedures and avoidance of systemic embolism.

Long-term aspirin prevents vascular events but is only modestly effective. Rivaroxaban alone or in combination with aspirin might be more effective than aspirin alone for vascular prevention in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) or peripheral artery disease (PAD). Rivaroxaban as well as aspirin increase upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding and this might be prevented by proton pump inhibitor therapy.

Residual atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk in statin-treated US adults without known ASCVD is not well described.

Current guidelines for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) recommend functional stress testing for risk stratification prior to revascularization procedures. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) is a modality of choice for stress testing because of its capability to detect myocardial ischemia sensitively and specifically. Nevertheless, evidence from randomized trials evaluating a CMR-based management of stable CAD patients in comparison to a more common angiography-based approach still is limited.

Homografts and synthetic grafts are used in surgery for congenital heart disease (CHD). Determining these materials' mechanical properties will aid understanding tissue behavior when subjected to abnormal CHD hemodynamics. Homograft tissue samples from anterior/posterior aspects, of ascending/descending aorta (AA, DA), innominate artery (IA), left subclavian artery (LScA), left common carotid artery (LCCA), main/left/right pulmonary artery (MPA, LPA, RPA), and synthetic vascular grafts were obtained in three orientations: circumferential, diagonal (45 degrees relative to circumferential direction) and longitudinal. Samples were subjected to uniaxial tensile testing (UTT). True strain-Cauchy stress curves were individually fitted for each orientation to calibrate Fung model. Then, they were used to calibrate anisotropic Holzapfel-Gasser model (R2>0.95). Most samples demonstrated nonlinear hyperelastic strain-stress response to UTT. Stiffness (measured by tangent modulus at different strains) in all orientations were compared and shown as contour plots. For each vessel segment at all strain levels, stiffness was not significantly different among aspects and orientations. For synthetic grafts, stiffness was significantly different among orientations (p<0.042). Aorta is significantly stiffer than pulmonary artery at 10% strain, comparing all orientations, aspects and regions (p=0.0001). Synthetic grafts are significantly stiffer than aortic and pulmonary homogafts at all strain levels (p<0.046). Aortic, pulmonary artery, and synthetic grafts exhibit hyperelastic biomechanical behavior with anisotropic effect. Differences in mechanical properties among vascular grafts may affect native tissue behavior and ventricular/arterial mechanical coupling, and increase risk of deformation due to abnormal CHD hemodynamics.

Mutations in BBS6 cause two clinically distinct syndromes, Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), a syndrome caused by defects in cilia transport and function, as well as McKusick-Kaufman syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by congenital heart defects. Congenital heart defects are rare in BBS, and McKusick-Kaufman syndrome patients do not develop retinitis pigmentosa. Therefore, the McKusick-Kaufman syndrome allele may highlight cellular functions of BBS6 distinct from the presently understood functions in the cilia. In support, we find that the McKusick-Kaufman syndrome disease-associated allele, BBS6H84Y; A242S, maintains cilia function. We demonstrate that BBS6 is actively transported between the cytoplasm and nucleus, and that BBS6H84Y; A242S, is defective in this transport. We developed a transgenic zebrafish with inducible bbs6 to identify novel binding partners of BBS6, and we find interaction with the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling protein Smarcc1a (SMARCC1 in humans). We demonstrate that through this interaction, BBS6 modulates the sub-cellular localization of SMARCC1 and find, by transcriptional profiling, similar transcriptional changes following smarcc1a and bbs6 manipulation. Our work identifies a new function for BBS6 in nuclear-cytoplasmic transport, and provides insight into the disease mechanism underlying the congenital heart defects in McKusick-Kaufman syndrome patients.

Pediatric sepsis has a high mortality rate in limited resource settings. Sepsis protocols have been shown to be a cost-effective strategy to improve morbidity and mortality in a variety of populations and settings. At Dhaka Hospital in Bangladesh, mortality from pediatric sepsis in high-risk children previously approached 60%, which prompted the implementation of an evidenced-based protocol in 2010. The clinical effectiveness of this protocol had not been measured. We hypothesized that implementation of a pediatric sepsis protocol improved clinical outcomes, including reducing mortality and length of hospital stay.

Inflammation is a key mechanism of atherosclerosis. White blood cells (WBCs) play a pivotal role in the inflammatory process. We investigated the relationships between total and differential WBC counts and multi-detector cardiac computed tomography (MDCT) findings, as well as the risk of cardiovascular disease in asymptomatic patients in Korea.

We aimed to firstly identify the different haemodynamic profiles amongst nulliparous women who develop either gestational hypertension (GH), pre-eclampsia (PE), normotensive fetal growth restriction (FGR) versus unaffected pregnancies using non-invasive cardiac output monitoring (NICOM(®)). Our second primary objective was to assess the ability of NICOM(®) derived variables to predict the evolution of PE, GH and FGR.

We aimed at developing a novel risk prediction model for death from cardiovascular disease (CVD) for Chinese individuals, based upon a large cohort from Taiwan.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) implicate the PHACTR1 locus (6p24) in risk for five vascular diseases, including coronary artery disease, migraine headache, cervical artery dissection, fibromuscular dysplasia, and hypertension. Through genetic fine mapping, we prioritized rs9349379, a common SNP in the third intron of the PHACTR1 gene, as the putative causal variant. Epigenomic data from human tissue revealed an enhancer signature at rs9349379 exclusively in aorta, suggesting a regulatory function for this SNP in the vasculature. CRISPR-edited stem cell-derived endothelial cells demonstrate rs9349379 regulates expression of endothelin 1 (EDN1), a gene located 600 kb upstream of PHACTR1. The known physiologic effects of EDN1 on the vasculature may explain the pattern of risk for the five associated diseases. Overall, these data illustrate the integration of genetic, phenotypic, and epigenetic analysis to identify the biologic mechanism by which a common, non-coding variant can distally regulate a gene and contribute to the pathogenesis of multiple vascular diseases.

Many cardiovascular diseases, including those affecting the atria, are associated with advancing age. Arrhythmias, including those in the atria, can arise due to electrical remodelling or alterations in Ca(2+) homeostasis. In the atria, age-associated changes in the action potential have been documented. However, little is known about remodelling of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis in the healthy aged heart. Using single atrial myocytes from young and aged Welsh Mountain sheep, we show the free Ca(2+) transient amplitude and rate of decay of systolic Ca(2+) decrease with age while sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca content increases. An increase in intracellular Ca buffering explains both the decrease in Ca(2+) transient amplitude and decay kinetics in the absence of any change in SERCA function. Ageing maintained the integrated Ca(2+) influx via ICa-L but decreased peak ICa-L . Decreased peak ICa-L was found to be responsible for the age-associated increase in SR Ca content but not the decrease in Ca(2+) transient amplitude. Instead decreased peak ICa-L offsets increased SR load such that Ca(2+) release from the SR was maintained in ageing. Our results highlight a novel mechanism by which increased Ca buffering decreases systolic Ca(2+) in old atria. Furthermore, we have shown for the first time that SR Ca content is increased in old atrial myocytes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

To describe patient characteristics, treatment, and outcome in male cats with urethral obstruction (UO) and fluid overload (FO), and to determine risk factors for the development of FO.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the frontrunner in the disease spectrum of sub-Saharan Africa, with stroke and ischaemic heart disease ranked seventh and 14th as leading causes of death, respectively, on this sub-continent. Unfortunately, this region is also grappling with many communicable, maternal, neonatal and nutritional disorders. Limited resources and the high cost of CVD treatment necessitate that primary prevention should have a high priority for CVD control in sub-Saharan Africa. One major challenge of such an approach is how to equip primary care to respond promptly and effectively to this burden. We present a practical approach on how primary care in sub-Saharan Africa could effectively address the prevention, treatment and control of CVD on the subcontinent. For effective prevention, control and treatment of CVD in sub-Saharan Africa, there should be strategic plans to equip primary care clinics with well-trained allied healthcare workers who are supervised by physicians.

Syncope is a common symptom with a possibly unfavourable prognosis, especially when the cause is a cardiac disease. Often diagnostic workup requires multiple and challenging investigations to determine whether the patient has a structural heart disease. Cardiac imaging tests should be used when baseline clinical findings raise the suspicion of a cardiac syncope. Transthoracic echocardiography is the first line imaging examination as it helps establish the cause of syncope and supplies useful information for prognostic stratification by evaluating systolic ventricle function. Advanced imaging techniques such as multidetector computed tomography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging should be reserved for selected cases when echocardiography is inconclusive. With this review we aim to report the main information obtainable with cardiac imaging tests in patients with suspected or known cardiac syncope. We summarize the most common as well as rarer heart structural diseases which may cause syncope and briefly state the possible physiopathologic mechanism. For each heart disease we describe the role of the various imaging techniques and the possible diagnostic and prognostic information provided by these techniques.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a common heart disease. Left atrial (LA) function plays an important role in the diastolic function in patients with HCM. In this study, two-dimensional speckle tracking imaging (2D-STI) was used to assess left atrial (LA) function in patients with HCM.

Cardiac-derived adherent proliferating (CardAP) cells obtained from endomyocardial biopsies (EMBs) with known anti-fibrotic and pro-angiogenic properties are good candidates for the autologous therapy of end-stage cardiac diseases such as dilated cardiomyopathy. However, due to the limited number of CardAP cells that can be obtained from EMBs, our aim is to isolate cells with similar properties from other regions of the heart with comparable tissue architecture. Here, we introduce the atrial appendage as a candidate region. Atrial appendage-derived cells were sorted with CD90 microbeads to obtain a CD90(low) cell population, which were subsequently analyzed for their surface marker and gene expression profiles via flow cytometry and micro array analysis. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for VEGF and IL-8 as well as tube formation assays were performed to investigate pro-angiogenic properties. Furthermore, growth kinetic assays were performed to estimate the cell numbers needed for cell-based products. Microarray analysis revealed the expression of numerous pro-angiogenic genes and strong similarities to CardAP cells with which they also share expression levels of defined surface antigens, i.e. CD29(+) , CD44(+) , CD45(-) , CD73(+) , CD90(low) , CD105(+) and CD166(+) . High secretion levels of VEGF and IL-8 as well as improved properties of vascular structures in vitro could be detected. Based on growth parameters, cell dosages for the treatment of more than 250 patients are possible using one appendage. These results lead to the conclusion that isolating cells with regenerative characteristics from atrial appendages is feasible and permits further investigations towards allogenic cell-based therapies.

Postexercise heart rate recovery (HRR) is a non-invasive tool for cardiac autonomic function assessment. Reproducibility of HRR has been established in healthy subjects; however, no study has evaluated this reproducibility in clinical populations who may present autonomic dysfunction. Patients with peripheral artery disease and intermittent claudication (IC) often present altered cardiac autonomic function and HRR could be an interesting tool for evaluating autonomic responses to interventions in this population. Therefore, the reproducibility of HRR should be determined in this specific population.

Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) have been promoted in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (nv-AF) as a more convenient alternative to vitamin K antagonists. We estimated 1-year dabigatran and rivaroxaban adherence rates in nv-AF patients and assessed associations between baseline patient characteristics and nonadherence.

The assessment of ischemia through myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) is widely accepted as an index step in the diagnostic evaluation of stable ischemic heart disease (SIHD). Numerous observational studies have characterized the prognostic significance of ischemia extent and severity. However, the role of ischemia in directing downstream SIHD care including coronary revascularization has remained elusive as reductions in ischemic burden have not translated to improved clinical outcomes in randomized trials. Importantly, selection bias leading to the inclusion of many low risk patients with minimal ischemia have narrowed the generalizability of prior studies along with other limitations. Accordingly, an ongoing randomized controlled trial entitled ISCHEMIA (International Study of Comparative Health Effectiveness with Medical and Invasive Approaches) will compare an invasive coronary revascularization strategy vs a conservative medical therapy approach among stable patients with moderate to severe ischemia. The results of ISCHEMIA may have a substantial impact on the management of SIHD and better define the role of MPI in current SIHD pathways of care.

The aim of this review is to describe predictors and therapeutic principles for PVC-induced cardiomyopathy.

The goal of this review is to summarize recent advances in the field and highlight important new insights from the Cardiovascular Outcomes in Renal Atherosclerotic Lesions (CORAL) trial regarding the optimal management of patients with renal artery stenosis (RAS).

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) represents an important target of antihypertensive medications. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB), which are widely-used RAS inhibiting drugs, have been suggested to have beneficial effects on bone tissue. We aimed to assess the associations of use of ACEIs and/or ARBs with the risk of fractures using a population-based prospective cohort and a meta-analysis of published prospective cohort studies. Information on antihypertensive medication use (including both ACEIs and ARBs) were assessed in 1743 men and women of the Kuopio Ischemic Heart Disease prospective cohort study. Hazard ratios (HRs) [95% confidence intervals (CI)] of ACEIs or ARBs use with incident fractures were calculated. A total of 203 composite (hip, humeral, and wrist) fractures occurred during a median follow-up of 14.8 years. In multivariate adjusted analysis, the HR for composite fractures comparing users of ACEIs or ARBs with non-users was 1.00 (0.59-1.69). The corresponding adjusted HR for hip fractures comparing users versus non-users of ACEIs or ARBs was 0.89 (0.32-2.47). Including the current study, a total of 11 observational cohort studies involving 3526,319 participants and >323,355 fractures were included in a meta-analysis. Comparing ACEI users with non-users and ARB users with non-users, the HRs for composite fractures were 1.09 (0.89-1.33) and 0.87 (0.76-1.01) respectively. The corresponding HRs for hip fractures were 0.91 (0.86-0.95) and 0.80 (0.75-0.85) respectively. Use of RAS inhibitors was not associated with long-term risk of composite fractures in both primary and pooled analyses. Pooled evidence however suggests a beneficial effect of RAS blockers on hip fracture risk.

Red cell distribution width (RDW) and neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) have been found to be associated with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF) and cardiovascular diseases. However, correlation of these parameters with presence of left atrial (LA) thrombus and/or spontaneous echo contrast (SEC) in patients with non-valvular AF has not been clarified. This study was an investigation of correlation of RDW, NLR, and clinical risk factors with LA thrombus and dense SEC in patients with non-valvular AF in the Turkish population.

Cardiovascular disease and cancer are leading causes of death. Both diseases share the same risk factors and, having the highest incidence and prevalence in the elderly, they often coexist in the same individual. Furthermore, the enhanced survival of cancer patients registered in the last decades and linked to early diagnosis and improvement of care, not infrequently exposes them to the appearance of ominous cardiovascular complications due to the deleterious effects of cancer treatment on the heart and circulatory system. The above considerations have led to the development of a new branch of clinical cardiology based on the principles of multidisciplinary collaboration between cardiologists and oncologists: Cardio-oncology, which aims to find solutions to the prevention, monitoring, diagnosis and treatment of heart damage induced by cancer care in order to pursue, in the individual patient, the best possible care for cancer while minimizing the risk of cardiac toxicity. In this consensus document we provide practical recommendations on how to assess, monitor, treat and supervise the candidate or patient treated with potentially cardiotoxic cancer therapy in order to treat cancer and protect the heart at all stages of the oncological disease. Cardiovascular diseases and cancer often share the same risk factors and can coexist in the same individual. Such possibility is amplified by the deleterious effects of cancer treatment on the heart. The above considerations have led to the development of a new branch of clinical cardiology, based on multidisciplinary collaboration between cardiologist and oncologist: the cardio-oncology. It aims to prevent, monitor, and treat heart damages induced by cancer therapies in order to achieve the most effective cancer treatment, while minimizing the risk of cardiac toxicity. In this paper, we provide practical recommendations on how to assess, monitor, treat and supervise patients treated with potential cardiotoxic cancer therapies.

Aortic stenosis is one of the most frequent valvular diseases in developed countries, and its impact on public health resources and assistance is increasing. A substantial proportion of elderly people with severe aortic stenosis is not eligible to surgery because of the advanced age, frailty, and multiple co-morbidities. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) enables the treatment of very elderly patients at high or prohibitive surgical risk considered ineligible for surgery and with an acceptable life expectancy. However, a significant percentage of patients die or show no improvement in quality of life (QOL) in the follow-up. In the decision-making process, it is important to determine: (i) whether and how much frailty of the patient influences the risk of procedures; (ii) how the QOL and the individual patient's survival are influenced by aortic valve disease or from other associated conditions; and (iii) whether a geriatric specialist intervention to evaluate and correct frailty or other diseases with their potential or already manifest disabilities can improve the outcome of surgery or TAVI. Consequently, in addition to risk stratification with conventional tools, a number of factors including multi-morbidity, disability, frailty, and cognitive function should be considered, in order to assess the expected benefit of both surgery and TAVI. The pre-operative optimization through a multidisciplinary approach with a Heart Team can counteract the multiple damage (cardiac, neurological, muscular, respiratory, and kidney) that can potentially aggravate the reduced physiological reserves characteristic of frailty. The systematic application in clinical practice of multidimensional assessment instruments of frailty and cognitive function in the screening and the adoption of specific care pathways should facilitate this task.

Venous thromboembolism (VTE), including pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis, is the third most common cause of cardiovascular death. The management of the acute phase of VTE has already been described in several guidelines. However, the management of the follow-up (FU) of these patients has been poorly defined. This consensus document, created by the Italian cardiologists, wants to clarify this issue using the currently available evidence in VTE. Clinical and instrumental data acquired during the acute phase of the disease are the cornerstone for planning the FU. Acquired or congenital thrombophilic disorders could be identified in apparently unprovoked VTE during the FU. In other cases, an occult cancer could be discovered after a VTE. The main targets of the post-acute management are to prevent recurrence of VTE and to identify the patients who can develop a chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Knowledge of pathophysiology and therapeutic approaches is fundamental to decide the most appropriate long-term treatment. Moreover, prognostic stratification during the FU should be constantly updated on the basis of the new evidence acquired. Currently, the cornerstone of VTE treatment is represented by both the oral and the parenteral anticoagulation. Novel oral anticoagulants should be an interesting alternative in the long-term treatment.

The wide availability of effective drugs in reducing cardiovascular events together with the use of myocardial revascularization has greatly improved the prognosis of patients with coronary artery disease. The combination of antithrombotic drugs to be administered before the knowledge of the coronary anatomy and before the consequent therapeutic strategies, can allow to anticipate optimal treatment, but can also expose the patients at risk of bleeding that, especially in acute coronary syndromes, can significantly weigh on their prognosis, even more than the expected theoretical benefit. In non ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes patients in particular, we propose a 'selective pre-treatment' with P2Y12 inhibitors, based on the ischaemic risk, on the bleeding risk and on the time scheduled for the execution of coronary angiography. Much of the problems concerning this issue would be resolved by an early access to coronary angiography, particularly for patients at higher ischaemic and bleeding risk.

Changing demographics and an increasing burden of multiple chronic comorbidities in Western countries dictate refocusing of heart failure (HF) services from acute in-hospital care to better support the long inter-critical out-of- hospital phases of HF. In Italy, as well as in other countries, needs of the HF population are not adequately addressed by current HF outpatient services, as documented by differences in age, gender, comorbidities and recommended therapies between patients discharged for acute hospitalized HF and those followed-up at HF clinics. The Italian Working Group on Heart Failure has drafted a guidance document for the organisation of a national HF care network. Aims of the document are to describe tasks and requirements of the different health system points of contact for HF patients, and to define how diagnosis, management and care processes should be documented and shared among health-care professionals. The document classifies HF outpatient clinics in three groups: (i) community HF clinics, devoted to management of stable patients in strict liaison with primary care, periodic re-evaluation of emerging clinical needs and prompt treatment of impending destabilizations, (ii) hospital HF clinics, that target both new onset and chronic HF patients for diagnostic assessment, treatment planning and early post-discharge follow-up. They act as main referral for general internal medicine units and community clinics, and (iii) advanced HF clinics, directed at patients with severe disease or persistent clinical instability, candidates to advanced treatment options such as heart transplant or mechanical circulatory support. Those different types of HF clinics are integrated in a dedicated network for management of HF patients on a regional basis, according to geographic features. By sharing predefined protocols and communication systems, these HF networks integrate multi-professional providers to ensure continuity of care and patient empowerment. In conclusion, This guidance document details roles and interactions of cardiology specialists, so as to best exploit the added value of their input in the care of HF patients and is intended to promote a more efficient and effective organization of HF services.

Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease still represents the leading cause of death in Western countries. A wealth of scientific evidence demonstrates that increased blood cholesterol levels have a major impact on the outbreak and progression of atherosclerotic plaques. Moreover, several cholesterol-lowering pharmacological agents, including statins and ezetimibe, have proved effective in improving clinical outcomes. This document focuses on the clinical management of hypercholesterolaemia and has been conceived by 16 Italian medical associations with the support of the Italian National Institute of Health. The authors discuss in detail the role of hypercholesterolaemia in the genesis of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. In addition, the implications for high cholesterol levels in the definition of the individual cardiovascular risk profile have been carefully analysed, while all available therapeutic options for blood cholesterol reduction and cardiovascular risk mitigation have been explored. Finally, this document outlines the diagnostic and therapeutic pathways for the clinical management of patients with hypercholesterolaemia.

Although collateral vessel growth is distinctly enhanced by elevated fluid shear stress (FSS), the underlying regulatory mechanism of this process remains incompletely understood. Recent studies have shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in vascular development, homeostasis and a variety of diseases. Therefore, this study was designed to identify miRNAs involved in elevated FSS-induced collateral vessel growth in rat hind limbs. A side-to-side arteriovenous (AV) shunt was created between the distal stump of one of the bilaterally occluded femoral arteries and the accompanying vein. The miRNA array profile showed 94 differentially expressed miRNAs in FSS-stressed collaterals including miRNA-352 which was down-regulated. Infusion of antagomir-352 increased the number and proliferation of collateral vessels and promoted collateral flow restoration in a model of rat hind limb ligation. In cell culture studies, the miR-352 inhibitor increased endothelial proliferation, migration and tube formation. In addition, antagomir-352 up-regulated the expression of insulin-like growth factor II receptor (IGF2R), which may play a part in the complex pathway leading to arterial growth. We conclude that enhanced collateral vessel growth is controlled by miRNAs, among which miR-352 is a novel candidate that negatively regulates arteriogenesis, meriting additional studies to unravel the pathways leading to improved collateral circulation.

The kidney is easily affected by aging-associated changes, including glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy, and interstitial fibrosis. Particularly, renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis is a final common pathway in most forms of progressive renal disease. Angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R)-associated protein (ATRAP), which was originally identified as a molecule that binds to AT1R, is highly expressed in the kidney. Previously, we have shown that ATRAP suppresses hyperactivation of AT1R signaling, but does not affect physiological AT1R signaling.

This study sought to assess payer costs following cryoballoon or radiofrequency current (RFC) catheter ablation of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the randomized FIRE AND ICE trial.

GPVI (Glycoprotein VI) is the essential platelet collagen receptor in atherothrombosis. Dimeric GPVI-Fc (Revacept) binds to GPVI binding sites on plaque collagen. As expected, it did not increase bleeding in clinical studies. GPVI-Fc is a potent inhibitor of atherosclerotic plaque-induced platelet aggregation at high shear flow, but its inhibition at low shear flow is limited. We sought to increase the platelet inhibitory potential by fusing GPVI-Fc to the ectonucleotidase CD39 (fusion protein GPVI-CD39), which inhibits local ADP accumulation at vascular plaques, and thus to create a lesion-directed dual antiplatelet therapy that is expected to lack systemic bleeding risks.

Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) are regulated in patients with coronary artery disease. The impact of transient coronary ischemia on circulating miRNA levels is unknown. We aimed to investigate circulating miRNA kinetics in response to cardiac stress in patients with or without significant coronary stenosis.

Percutaneous coronary intervention has been widely used in the treatment of ischemic heart disease, but vascular restenosis is a main limitation of percutaneous coronary intervention. Our previous work reported that caveolin-1 had a key functional role in intimal hyperplasia, whereas whether Cavin-1 (another important caveolae-related protein) was involved is still unknown. Therefore, we will investigate the effect of Cavin-1 on neointimal formation.

In patients with bicuspid aortic valve (BAV), coronary anatomy is variable. High take-off coronary arteries have been described, but data are scarce, especially when associated with complex congenital heart disease (CHD). The purpose of this study was to describe coronary patterns in these patients.

Understanding the interaction between the valves and walls of the heart is important in assessing and subsequently treating heart dysfunction. This study presents an integrated model of the mitral valve (MV) coupled to the left ventricle (LV), with the geometry derived from in vivo clinical magnetic resonance images. Numerical simulations using this coupled MV-LV model are developed using an immersed boundary/finite element method. The model incorporates detailed valvular features, left ventricular contraction, nonlinear soft tissue mechanics, and fluid-mediated interactions between the MV and LV wall. We use the model to simulate cardiac function from diastole to systole. Numerically predicted LV pump function agrees well with in vivo data of the imaged healthy volunteer, including the peak aortic flow rate, the systolic ejection duration, and the LV ejection fraction. In vivo MV dynamics are qualitatively captured. We further demonstrate that the diastolic filling pressure increases significantly with impaired myocardial active relaxation to maintain a normal cardiac output. This is consistent with clinical observations. The coupled model has the potential to advance our fundamental knowledge of mechanisms underlying MV-LV interaction, and help in risk stratification and optimisation of therapies for heart diseases.

Management and outcome of patients with operable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) who underwent pulmonary endarterectomy (PEA) at a large German referral center were investigated.

Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B) and other dysferlinopathies are degenerative muscle diseases that result from mutations in the dysferlin gene and have limited treatment options. The dysferlin protein has been linked to multiple cellular functions including a Ca(2+)-dependent membrane repair process that reseals disruptions in the sarcolemmal membrane. Recombinant human MG53 protein (rhMG53) can increase the membrane repair process in multiple cell types both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we tested whether rhMG53 protein can improve membrane repair in a dysferlin-deficient mouse model of LGMD2B (B6.129-Dysf(tm1Kcam)/J). We found that rhMG53 can increase the integrity of the sarcolemmal membrane of isolated muscle fibers and whole muscles in a Ca(2+)-independent fashion when assayed by a multi-photon laser wounding assay. Intraperitoneal injection of rhMG53 into mice before acute eccentric treadmill exercise can decrease the release of intracellular enzymes from skeletal muscle and decrease the entry of immunoglobulin G and Evans blue dye into muscle fibers in vivo. These results indicate that short-term rhMG53 treatment can ameliorate one of the underlying defects in dysferlin-deficient muscle by increasing sarcolemmal membrane integrity. We also provide evidence that rhMG53 protein increases membrane integrity independently of the canonical dysferlin-mediated, Ca(2+)-dependent pathway known to be important for sarcolemmal membrane repair.

The last 25 to 30 years have seen enormous advances in imaging techniques for the diagnosis of heart disease (echocardiography, cardiac MRI, CT angiography, etc.). Nevertheless, the first imaging test done in patient with heart disease continues to be plain-film chest X-rays. This economical, widely available technique makes it possible to follow up patients with heart disease and even to assess the severity of disease in some cases. This article explains how to read a chest X-ray systematically and the radiologic signs that make possible to suspect heart disease; it also provides detailed information about the signs of heart failure and the meaning of cardiac calcifications.

A plethora of environmental and behavioral factors interact, resulting in changes in gene expression and providing a basis for the development and progression of cardiovascular diseases. Heterogeneity in gene expression responses among cells and individuals involves epigenetic mechanisms. Advancing technology allowing genome-scale interrogation of epigenetic marks provides a rapidly expanding view of the complexity and diversity of the epigenome. In this review, the authors discuss the expanding landscape of epigenetic modifications and highlight their importance for future understanding of disease. The epigenome provides a mechanistic link between environmental exposures and gene expression profiles ultimately leading to disease. The authors discuss the current evidence for transgenerational epigenetic inheritance and summarize the data linking epigenetics to cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, the potential targets provided by the epigenome for the development of future diagnostics, preventive strategies, and therapy for cardiovascular disease are reviewed. Finally, the authors provide some suggestions for future directions.

High-sensitivity assays can quantify cardiac troponins I and T (hs-cTnI, hs-cTnT) in individuals with no clinically manifest myocardial injury.

In patients with a myocardial infarction (MI) 1 to 3 years earlier, treatment with ticagrelor + low-dose aspirin (ASA) reduces the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, MI, or stroke compared with low-dose aspirin alone, but at an increased risk of major bleeding.

Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) share clinical and molecular features. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers may help the characterization of these diseases, improving the differential diagnosis. We evaluated the diagnostic performance of five CSF biomarkers across a well-characterized cohort of patients diagnosed with AD, DLB, PDD, and Parkinson's disease (PD).

Microvascular disease is associated with a high risk of macrovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes, but the impact of macrovascular disease on the risk of microvascular events remains unknown. We sought to evaluate the respective effects of prior microvascular and macrovascular disease on the risk of major outcomes, including microvascular events, in these patients.

Patient engagement in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is expected to result in a more patient-centered approach to care that aligns with patients' values, preferences, and goals for treatment. Nevertheless, no previous studies of which we are aware have evaluated patients' benefit-risk preferences for the management of anemia associated with ESRD. The primary objective of this study was to quantify the tradeoffs patients are willing to make between cardiovascular risks associated with some anemia medicines and red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. A secondary objective was to quantify the importance of avoiding transfusion-related risks.

To evaluate the geographic and demographic variabilities of the quantitative parameters of computed tomography perfusion (CTP) of the left ventricular (LV) myocardium in patients with normal coronary artery on computed tomography angiography (CTA).

Altered nutrients during the in utero (IU) and/or lactation (L) period predispose offspring to cardio-renal diseases in adulthood. This study investigates the effect of a high fat diet (HFD) fed to female mice during IU/L on gene expression patterns associated with heart and kidney failure and hypertension in male offspring.

Irradiation of normal tissues leads to acute increase in reactive oxygen/nitrogen species that serve as intra and intercellular signaling to alter cell and tissue function. In the case of chest irradiation it can affect the heart, blood vessels and lungs, with consequent tissue remodelation and adverse side effects and symptoms. This complex process is orchestrated by a large number of interacting molecular signals, including cytokines, chemokines and growth factors. Inflammation, endothelial cell dysfunction, thrombogenesis, organ dysfunction and ultimate failing of the heart occur as a pathological entity - "radiation-induced heart disease" (RIHD) that is major source of morbidity and mortality. The purpose of the review is to bring insights into the basic mechanisms of RIHD that may lead to the identification of targets for intervention in the radiotherapy side effect. Studies of authors also provide knowledge how to select targeted drugs or biological molecules to modify the progression of radiation damage in the heart. New prospective studies are needed to validate that assessed factors and changes are useful as early markers of cardiac damage.

Extracellular matrix production and accumulation stabilize the heart under normal conditions as well as form a protective scar after myocardial infarction injury, although excessive extracellular matrix accumulation with long-standing heart disease is pathological. In the current study we investigate the role of the matricellular protein, transforming growth factor beta-induced (TGFBI), which is induced in various forms of heart disease. Additionally, we sought to understand whether TGFBI is functionally redundant to its closely related family member periostin, which is also induced in the diseased heart. Surgical models of myocardial infarction and cardiac pressure overload were used in mice with genetic loss of Postn and/or Tgfbi to examine the roles of these genes during the fibrotic response. Additionally, cardiac-specific TGFBI transgenic mice were generated and analyzed. We observed that deletion of Tgfbi did not alter cardiac disease after myocardial infarction in contrast to greater ventricular wall rupture in Postn gene-deleted mice. Moreover, Tgfbi and Postn double gene-deleted mice showed a similar post-myocardial infarction disease phenotype as Postn-deleted mice. Over-expression of TGFBI in the hearts of mice had a similar effect as previously shown in mice with periostin over-expression. Thus, TGFBI and periostin act similarly in the heart in affecting fibrosis and disease responsiveness, although TGFBI is not seemingly necessary in the heart after myocardial infarction injury and is fully compensated by the more prominently expressed effector periostin.

Tailored, patient-centred innovations are needed in the care for persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), in particular those with insufficient glycaemic control. Therefore, this study sought to assess their biopsychosocial characteristics and explore whether distinct biopsychosocial profiles exist within this subpopulation, which differ in health-related quality of life (HRQoL).

Patients who develop herpes zoster or herpes zoster ophthalmicus may be at risk for cerebrovascular and cardiac complications. We systematically reviewed the published literature to determine the association between herpes zoster and its subtypes with the occurrence of cerebrovascular and cardiac events.

Arthritis is related to poor health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in adults aged 18 years or older. We sought to determine whether this relationship persisted in an older population using claims-based arthritis diagnoses and whether people who also had arthritis and at least 1 of 5 other chronic conditions had lower HRQoL.

To evaluate the implementation of early screening for critical congenital heart defects (CCHDs) in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and potential exclusion of sub-populations from universal screening.

Acute rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease (RHD) are important public health problems in developing countries. In this study, peptidomic analyses on RHD patients and healthy individuals were performed to characterize variations in serum peptide levels using label-free quantitation approaches.

Ebstein anomaly is a rare congenital heart disease that has been described in domestic dogs, a meerkat, a pygmy goat, and a lion. An 11-mo-old Tsushima leopard cat presented to Osaka Prefecture University Veterinary Hospital for diagnosis and treatment of right-sided congestive heart failure. Echocardiography showed a dilated right atrium and ventricle with an enlarged tricuspid valve annulus and apical displacement of the tricuspid valve leaflets. The cat was diagnosed with Ebstein anomaly. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of this type of congenital heart disease in a Tsushima leopard cat.

The purpose of this study was to elucidate the involvement of kindergarten and nursery school teachers with young children with congenital heart disease. The study was designed as a qualitative descriptive study. Interviews of kindergarten and nursery school teachers with experience in the care and education of young children with congenital heart disease were conducted, during which they described their experience. Verbatim transcripts of the interviews were prepared, and the content was categorized. The study participants were 11 kindergarten and nursery school teachers. Extracted from the content of the interviews of the study participants were 282 codes, 33 subcategories, 6 categories, and 2 major categories. In their responses, the teachers indicated that they had been "Providing care for the children while seeking ways to avoid special treatment in a group setting." In addition, they established a "Framework for school-parent cooperation in order to promptly accommodate the wishes of parents" of these children. The study showed that the kindergarten and nursery school teachers involved other pupils and monitored the condition of children with congenital heart disease to avoid special treatment of the children in the group setting. In addition, the teachers established a framework for cooperation between the school and parents. In the future, these findings will be used to create a nursing support model for the group life of young children with congenital heart disease.

In recent years, based on clinical observations, the number of lung cancer patients with concomitant coronary heart disease (CHD) has gradually increased. However, because of the requirement of long-term anticoagulant therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), some of these patients lose the opportunity for surgical treatment, resulting in tumor progression. The objective of this study was to determine the appropriate timing of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) lobectomy after PCI without increasing perioperative cardiovascular risk.

The management of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in patients with obesity presents numerous challenges. Obesity has a negative effect on almost all of the major CVD risk factors, and adversely influences cardiovascular structure and function. Patients who are overweight or obese have a higher incidence of almost all CVDs compared with patients who are of normal weight. However, those who are overweight or obese seem to have a better short-term and medium-term prognosis after major CVD events and interventional procedures or cardiac surgeries than leaner patients, a phenomenon termed the 'obesity paradox'. In considering the mechanisms underlying this paradox, we review evidence of the deleterious consequences of obesity in patients with coronary heart disease, and the limited data on the benefits of weight loss in patients with CVD. Additional studies are needed on the efficacy of purposeful weight loss on cardiovascular outcomes to determine the ideal body composition for patients with CVD.

The incidence of acute kidney injury (AKI) is high in the elderly, who comprise an ever-growing segment of the population. Elderly patients pose a different set of diagnostic and therapeutic challenge owing to their associated comorbidities. AKI in the elderly is associated with an increased risk of mortality, morbidity, prolonged length of stay, and progression to chronic kidney disease. Data regarding the clinical profile of AKI in the elderly from the South Indian population are limited. Hence, we present this analysis of the etiological and prognostic factors associated with AKI in elderly population from South India. This is a cross-sectional, prospective, observational study conducted in a tertiary care teaching hospital from Bengaluru, during the period from May 2011 to October 2012. Institutional Ethical Committee clearance was obtained. Informed consents were obtained from patients who fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Elderly patients >60 years of age with features of AKI (Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss, and End-stage criteria) 1 at admission and those who developed AKI following hospital admission were included in the study. Demographic details, detailed medical history, comorbid conditions, etiological factors, prognostic factors, and outcomes were collected. Statistical analysis was done using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences software. Two hundred patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were enrolled into the study. The mean age was 70.5 years. Fifty-nine percent were males and 41% were females. Peak incidence of AKI was in the age group 60-69 years. Diabetes was seen in 44%, hypertension in 35%, ischemic heart disease in 19%, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 12% of cases. Ninety-one percent had AKI at admission, and the rest developed it during hospitalization. The average duration of hospital stay was seven days. Etiological factors for AKI were medical in 87% of the cases, surgical in 11%, and gynecological in 2%. Sepsis was the most common etiology of AKI among the medical cases. Among sepsis, pneumonia and urosepsis were the most common causes of AKI. Medical AKI had a better outcome compared to surgical causes of AKI. Fifty-six (28%) patients required dialysis. Forty-four patients received hemodialysis and 12 received peritoneal dialysis. The overall mortality in the study group was 15%. Mortality among oliguric AKI (25%) was higher than in nonoliguric AKI (5%) patients (P = 0.002). The mortality rate was higher among postsurgical AKI compared to the medical causes (P <0.001) and in patients who required dialysis. Sepsis is the most common cause of AKI in elderly with high morbidity and mortality. Oliguria, postsurgical AKI, and need for dialysis were independent predictors of mortality.

Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the major complications of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The diagnosis of DN is mostly clinical. Kidney biopsy is indicated only if nondiabetic renal disease (NDRD) is suspected. This study is aimed to assess the prevalence of NDRD and to determine predictor and prognostic factors of DN, NDRD. It was a retrospective analytic study including T2DM patients in whom renal biopsies were performed at our department from 1988 to 2014. Seventy-five patients were included. Mean age was 52.7 years with sex ratio at 1.56. Renal biopsy findings were isolated NDRD in 33 cases, NDRD superimposed on DN in 24 cases, and isolated DN in 18 cases. Most common NDRD found were focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (21%) and membranous nephropathy (19%). Multivariate analysis showed that the absence of ischemic heart disease [odds ratio (OR) = 0.178, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.041-0.762], absence of peripheral vascular disease (OR = 0.173, 95% CI = 0.045-0.669), and presence of hematuria (OR = 7.200, 95%CI = 0.886-58.531) were independent predictors of NDRD. 24 patients reached end-stage renal disease 55% in DN group, 16% in DN associated to NDRD group, and 30% in NDRD group. The prevalence of NDRD found in our study confirmed usefulness of renal biopsy in patients with T2DM, especially in those without degenerative complications, hypertension, and insulin therapy.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease. Chronic kidney disease (CKD)-associated cardiovascular mortality is more prevalent in those with diastolic heart failure and is an early predictor, while increased left ventricular mass (LVM) is a strong independent risk factor. Hypovitaminosis D is extensively being studied as a nontraditional risk factor for CVD. The aim of the present study is to look at the association of Vitamin D and other parameters of mineral bone disorder (MBD) with diastolic dysfunction and LVM in nondiabetic young adult patients with CKD. This was a hospital-based, cross-sectional observational study. Groups I and II comprised nondiabetic predialysis CKD patients (stage 4 and 5) and healthy controls, respectively. Groups IA and IB comprised cases with and without diastolic dysfunction, respectively. Vitamin D level was measured by enhanced chemiluminescence method and intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) by electrochemiluminescence method. Parameters for diastolic function and LVM were assessed by Doppler echocardiography, tissue Doppler imaging, and M-mode echocardiography. Vitamin D level was significantly lower in Group I as compared to Group II. Diastolic dysfunction was present in 48.8% of the cases and was significantly associated with serum phosphorus and calcium-phosphorous product, but not with Vitamin D level. A statistically significant positive correlation between LVM and iPTH was found in our study. Hyperphosphatemia and high calcium-phosphorous product can be a better early predictor of diastolic dysfunction than Vitamin D while secondary hyperpara-thyroidism with increased LVM may be a bad prognostic marker.

Integrated multidisciplinary predialysis education (MPE) is usually provided to support and prepare the pre-end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients before the initiation of renal replacement therapy (RRT). However, the impact of MPE is not known in our population, which is comprised patients of Asian origins and recipients of a totally subsidized health-care system. This research compared the survival probability, sociodemographic, and clinical characteristics of MPE patients and non-MPE patients (or crashlanders). A retrospective cohort study was conducted to investigate ESRD patients who started RRT in Brunei Darussalam from January 2013 to December 2014. Data were extracted from the computerized clinical database and dialysis records. A total of 351 new cases of ESRD patients who started on hemodialysis during the study period were included in the study. The median age was 56.0 years, with a slight male preponderance (56.6%). The MPE group was significantly older (P = 0.001) and more likely to have a history of diabetes mellitus (P = 0.013), ischemic heart disease (P = 0.014), and hypertension (P = 0.016). Despite being older and having more comorbidities (P = 0.028), MPE patients have a better survival probability (P = 0.028) and a 34% decreased risk of dying. Of those who died, older age (P = 0.001), higher serum creatinine (P = 0.01), and lower hemoglobin level (P = 0.017) were significant prognostic indicators. MPE before the initiation of RRT contributed to greater survival probability in near ESRD patients. The survival benefits were evident despite the presence of inherent risks (older age and presence of comorbidities) in the MPE population in comparison with the non-MPE cohort.

Prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is increasing worldwide principally among the elderly population many of whom will eventually need renal replacement therapy. The relationship between frailty and CKD in the elderly population has been recognized. However, studies concentrating on frailty in pre-dialysis patients are limited. CKD predisposes to frailty through many potential mechanisms; anemia, bone mineral disease, oxidative stress, and malnutrition which in turn lead to progression of CKD culminating in a vicious cycle. Identifying potential causes of frailty in elderly pre-dialysis patients and recognizing individuals at risk should be an area of focus to nephrologists and researchers. Modalities that may improve frailty in elderly pre-dialysis patients such as treatment of anemia and bone mineral disease may improve outcome. However, this has not been established and further research is needed. The aim of this review is to address the importance of recognizing frailty in elderly pre-dialysis patients using simple tools and describing its implications on clinical outcome.

Malaria is considered as the most important parasitic disease of humans, causing seri- ous illness that can be fatal, if not diagnosed and treated immediately. It is a multisystem disorder affecting nearly every system of the body. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the involvement of cardiovascular system in severe malaria using non-invasive methods.

Diastolic dysfunction develops in response to hypertension and estrogen (E2) loss and is a forerunner to heart failure (HF) in women. The cardiac renin-angiotensin system (RAS) contributes to diastolic dysfunction, but its role with respect to E2 and blood pressure remain unclear.

Only a few studies have investigated the relationship between different subtypes and disease progression or prognosis in patients with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Since a localized injury often produces more focal signs than a diffuse injury, we hypothesized that the clinical characteristics differ between patients with bvFTD who show diffuse frontal lobe atrophy (D-type) on axial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans versus those with focal or circumscribed frontal lobe atrophy (F-type).

Hymenoptera venom allergy is a potentially life-threatening allergic reaction following a honeybee, vespid or ant sting. Systemic allergic sting reactions have been reported in up to 7.5% of adults and up to 3.4% of children. They can be mild and restricted to the skin or moderate-to-severe with a risk of life-threatening anaphylaxis. Patients should carry an emergency kit containing an adrenaline autoinjector, H1 -antihistamines, and corticosteroids depending on the severity of their previous sting reaction(s). The only treatment to prevent further systemic sting reactions is venom immunotherapy. This guideline has been prepared by the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology's (EAACI) Taskforce on Venom Immunotherapy as part of the EAACI Guidelines on Allergen Immunotherapy initiative. The guideline aims to provide evidence-based recommendations for the use of venom immunotherapy, has been informed by a formal systematic review and meta-analysis and produced using the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation (AGREE II) approach. The process included representation from a range of stakeholders. Venom immunotherapy is indicated in venom allergic children and adults to prevent further moderate to severe systemic sting reactions. Venom immunotherapy is also recommended in adults with only generalized skin reactions as it results in significant improvements in quality of life compared to carrying an adrenaline auto-injector. This guideline aims to give practical advice on performing venom immunotherapy. Key sections cover general considerations before initiating venom immunotherapy, evidence-based clinical recommendations, risk factors for adverse events and for relapse of systemic sting reaction, and a summary of gaps in the evidence. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Admission to the chest pain observation unit (CPOU) may be an advantageous time for patients to consider heart-healthy lifestyle changes while undergoing diagnostic evaluation to rule out myocardial ischemia. The aim of this pragmatic trial was to assess the effectiveness of a multiple risk factor intervention in changing CPOU patients' health beliefs and readiness to change health behaviors. A secondary aim was to obtain preliminary estimates of the intervention's effect on diet, physical activity, and smoking.

Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) remains a vital treatment for patients with multivessel coronary artery disease (CAD), especially diabetics. The long-term benefit of the internal thoracic artery graft is well established and remains the gold standard for revascularization of severe CAD. It is not always possible to achieve complete revascularization through arterial grafts, necessitating the use of saphenous vein grafts (SVG). Unfortunately, SVGs do not have the same longevity, and their failure is associated with significant adverse cardiac outcomes and mortality. This paper reviews the pathogenesis of SVG failure, highlighting the difference between early, intermediate, and late failure. It also addresses the different surgical techniques that affect the incidence of SVG failure, as well as the medical and percutaneous prevention and treatment options in contemporary practice.

Neonatal period represents first 28 days of life, which is the most vulnerable time for a child's survival especially for the preterm babies. High neonatal mortality is a prominent and persistent problem across the globe. Non-availability of trained staff and infrastructure are the major recognized hurdles in the quality care of these neonates. Hourly progress growth charts and reports are still maintained manually by nurses along with continuous calculation of drug dosage and nutrition as per the changing weight of the baby. iNICU (integrated Neonatology Intensive Care Unit) leverages Beaglebone and Intel Edison based IoT integration with biomedical devices in NICU i.e. monitor, ventilator and blood gas machine. iNICU is hosted on IBM Softlayer based cloud computing infrastructure and map NICU workflow in Java based responsive web application to provide translational research informatics support to the clinicians. iNICU captures real time vital parameters i.e. respiration rate, heart rate, lab data and PACS amounting for millions of data points per day per child. Stream of data is sent to Apache Kafka layer which stores the same in Apache Cassandra NoSQL. iNICU also captures clinical data like feed intake, urine output, and daily assessment of child in PostgreSQL database. It acts as first Big Data hub (of both structured and unstructured data) of neonates across India offering temporal (longitudinal) data of their stay in NICU and allow clinicians in evaluating efficacy of their interventions. iNICU leverages drools based clinical rule based engine and deep learning based big data analytical model coded in R and PMML. iNICU solution aims to improve care time, fills skill gap, enable remote monitoring of neonates in rural regions, assists in identifying the early onset of disease, and reduction in neonatal mortality.

To identify the prevalence of interstitial lung disease (ILD) in Korean patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and assess its effect on mortality. A total of 3555 patients with RA, with chest X-ray or chest computed tomography (CT) data at enrollment were extracted from the KORean Observational study Network for Arthritis cohort, a nationwide prospective cohort for patients with RA in Korea. The patients were classified into two groups: (1) an ILD group by chest X-ray or chest CT scan, and (2) a non-ILD group by these modalities. After comparing the characteristics of the groups at enrollment, mortalities were compared using the log-rank test. To explore the impact of ILD on mortality, Cox proportional hazard models were used. Sixty-four patients (1.8%) were identified with ILD. Male and older patients were more common in the ILD group. During a mean follow-up of 24 months, 6 patients (9.4%) in the ILD group and 25 patients (0.7%) in the non-ILD group died; the survival rate was significantly worse in the ILD group (p < 0.01). On adjusted analysis, ILD was significantly associated with increased mortality (HR 7.89, CI 3.16-19.69, p < 0.01); the risk of death in patients with ILD was even higher than in patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD, HR 4.10, CI 1.79-9.37, p < 0.01). The prevalence of ILD was 1.8% in Korean patients with RA. ILD is a major risk factor for mortality in patients with RA.

This descriptive study was undertaken in order to determine hopelessness and quality of life among the patients with heart disease. No sampling was made, and 200 patients who were voluntary and were able to communicate were included in the study. The data of the study were collected using a personal information form that involved questions about patients' descriptive information and their diseases, Beck Hopelessness Scale and SF-36 Quality of Life Scale with a face-to-face interview technique. For the analyses of the data, percentages, means, t test, Kruskal-Wallis and Pearson's correlation analyses were used. It was identified 54% of them was male patients. It was seen that there were significant between income status and general health perceptions, hopelessness; and between health perceptions and vitality, general health perceptions, global quality of life, hopelessness (p < .05). It was also explored that there was a negative correlation between hopelessness levels of the cardiac patients and functioning status, general health perceptions and global quality of life. It was determined that the desperation levels of the patients were above the middle level, and the quality of life was low.

Adherence to treatment guidelines affects outcomes in patients with chronic heart failure (HF). We investigated patient pathways and treatment patterns for HF in Germany.

Fractional flow reserve (FFR) has become the gold standard for functional assessment of coronary artery stenosis. Studies have confirmed the superiority of FFR guided percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) compared to angiography guided PCI. Due to the high cost of FFR, it is not economically viable for FFR to be incorporated into every routine invasive coronary angiography. As a result, visual estimation of diameter stenosis on invasive coronary angiography still remains the cornerstone for decision making regarding revascularisation treatment for patients. This is despite recent studies questioning the "visual functional mismatch" between diameter stenosis and FFR in 57% of patients with non-left main stenosis. In patients with multivessel disease, complete revascularisation leads to improved long term outcomes. However, some lesions classified as significant by angiography may not be functionally significant. Kobayashi and colleagues demonstrated that after functionally complete revascularization with FFR guidance, residual angiographic lesions that are not functionally significant do not reflect residual ischemia or predict a worse outcome, supporting functionally complete, rather than angiographically complete, revascularization.

The association between uric acid (UA) on one side and systemic hypertension (Htn), dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, overweight, fatty liver, renal disease and cardiovascular disease (CVD) on the other side is well recognized. However, the causal relationship between UA and these different clinical problems is still debatable. The recent years have witnessed hundreds of experimental and clinical trials that favored the opinion that UA is a probable player in the pathogenesis of these disease entities. These studies disclosed the strong association between hyperuricemia and metabolic syndrome (MS), obesity, Htn, type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hypertriglyceridemia, acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease (CKD), coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure and increased mortality among cardiac and CKD patients. The association between UA and nephrolithiasis or preeclampsia is a non-debatable association. Recent experimental trials have disclosed different changes in enzyme activities induced by UA. Nitric oxide (NO) synthase, adenosine monophosphate kinase (AMPK), adenosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (AMPD), and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidase are affected by UA. These changes in enzymatic activities can lead to the observed biochemical and pathological changes associated with UA. The recent experimental, clinical, interventional, and epidemiologic trials favor the concept of a causative role of UA in the pathogenesis of MS, renal, and CVDs.

Williams syndrome is a developmental disorder including dysmorphia, cardiovascular malformations and a specific neuropsychological profile together with other associated disorders. We report the case of a 17-year old girl, born of a non-inbred marriage, with Williams syndrome discovered during an assessment of degree of failure to thrive. Its association with primary adrenal insufficiency makes it unique. Diagnosis is confirmed by cytogenetic and molecular analysis. Its management consists of the implementation of treatment for adrenal insufficiency associated with a clinico-biological monitoring.

Smoking cessation is the most powerful intervention to modify progress of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and nicotine dependence is one of the most important determinants of success or failure in smoking cessation. We evaluated nicotine dependence status and investigated factors associated with moderate to high nicotine dependence in patients with COPD.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) results in high morbidity and mortality among patients both domestically and globally. The Korean clinical practice guideline for COPD was revised in 2014. It was drafted by the members of the Korean Academy of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases, as well as participating members of the Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service, Korean Physicians' Association, and Korea Respiration Trouble Association. This revised guideline covers a wide range of topics, including the epidemiology, diagnosis, assessment, monitoring, management, exacerbation, and comorbidities of COPD in Korea. We drafted a guideline on COPD management by performing systematic reviews on the topic of management with the help of a meta-analysis expert. We expect this guideline will be helpful medical doctors treating patients with respiratory conditions, other health care professionals, and government personnel in South Korea.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) had been considered the only major disease that is continuing to increase in prevalence. There were a few studies about the change of the prevalence of COPD, which showed the prevalence of COPD did not increase. In this review, we report on the trends in the prevalence of COPD in Korea using the data from Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES). The prevalence of COPD in 2015 was 13.4% (male, 21.6%; female, 5.8%). The prevalence of COPD did not change much, which ranged from 13.1% to 14.6% during the period from 2010 to 2015. Among the subjects found to have COPD by spirometry, only 2.8% had been diagnosed as COPD by physicians during the period from 2011 and 2015. In conclusion, the prevalence of COPD did not change significantly during the period from 2010 to 2015. And most COPD patients still had not been diagnosed by physicians and consequently had not been treated appropriately.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a recognized risk factor for acute coronary syndromes. There is currently no consensus concerning the intensification of antihyperglycemic treatment. According to the available guidelines, it seems that the goal is to achieve glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels below 7% and avoid hypoglycemia. The choice of a revascularization method is influenced by many factors, such as the anatomy of the coronary arteries, severity of atherosclerosis, anatomical location of lesions, and presence of comorbidities. However, in non-ST elevation myocardial infarction, determining the culprit lesion is often difficult based on ECG or angiography. Experts recommend coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with type 2 diabetes and multivessel or complex (SYNTAX score exceeding 22 points) coronary artery disease in order to improve survival. Percutaneous coronary intervention should be considered as an alternative to CABG to control symptoms in patients with type 2 diabetes and less complex forms of the disease (i.e., SYNTAX score of 22 or lower).

Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common acquired valvular heart disease. The early identification of patients with severe AS is crucial. NT-proBNP is a well-known biomarker of pressure overload, and its role in patients with AS has been demonstrated in previous studies. Another, less well-known biomarker of pressure overload is sST2 protein, and its role in AS is unclear.

Given knowledge at the time, the recent 2015-2016 zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic probably could not have been predicted. Without the prior knowledge of ZIKV being already present in South America, and given the lack of understanding of key epidemiologic processes and long-term records of ZIKV cases in the continent, the best related prediction could be carried out for the potential risk of a generic Aedes-borne disease epidemic. Here we use a recently published two-vector basic reproduction number model to assess the predictability of the conditions conducive to epidemics of diseases like zika, chikungunya, or dengue, transmitted by the independent or concurrent presence of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus. We compare the potential risk of transmission forcing the model with the observed climate and with state-of-the-art operational forecasts from the North American Multi Model Ensemble (NMME), finding that the predictive skill of this new seasonal forecast system is highest for multiple countries in Latin America and the Caribbean during the December-February and March-May seasons, and slightly lower-but still of potential use to decision-makers-for the rest of the year. In particular, we find that above-normal suitable conditions for the occurrence of the zika epidemic at the beginning of 2015 could have been successfully predicted at least 1 month in advance for several zika hotspots, and in particular for Northeast Brazil: the heart of the epidemic. Nonetheless, the initiation and spread of an epidemic depends on the effect of multiple factors beyond climate conditions, and thus this type of approach must be considered as a guide and not as a formal predictive tool of vector-borne epidemics.

For early prevention of cardiovascular disease, early detection and risk factor insights are necessary. The autonomic balance reflects cardiovascular risk and can be measured by heart rate variability (HRV). Therefore, our purpose is to examine associations between HRV and the energy-related biomarkers leptin and adiponectin in children. Participants of this study were Belgian children recruited for the longitudinal ChiBS study (year 2010-2012). HRV was measured and fasting blood samples were taken in 249 children at baseline (4.4-11.0 y) and 223 children at follow-up (6.7-12.2 y). Cross-sectional and longitudinal linear regression analyses were separated by sex and adjusted for age, socio-economic status, body fat%, negative emotions, puberty, and mean heart rate. Leptin was a negative cross-sectional and longitudinal predictor of parasympathetic activity in boys; while leptin in girls was cross-sectionally associated with higher LF and LF/HF suggesting sympathetic predominance. Adiponectin was a negative cross-sectional and longitudinal predictor of parasympathetic activity in boys; but when adjusting for mean heart rate, this effect disappeared and adiponectin was a positive cross-sectional and longitudinal predictor of parasympathetic activity in girls. These results stress the importance of considering sex differences and adjustment for heart rate in testing HRV predictors. Leptin seemed disadvantageous for the autonomic balance, while adiponectin seemed advantageous for the autonomic balance in girls only. More research is needed to see whether leptin and adiponectin are interesting in cardiovascular screening/prevention or in determining the cardiovascular gain during weight loss follow-up.

In epidemiologic studies, the relationship between fish consumption and the metabolic syndrome (MetS) have been inconclusive and sex differences reported. The aim was to investigate associations between fish intake and the MetS in a cross-sectional study of men and women. Fish intake, waist circumference, triglycerides (TG), HDL-C, glucose and blood pressure were assessed among 2874 men and women (46-49 y) in the Hordaland Health Study (1997-1999). Fatty fish intake was inversely associated with TG in men only; mean difference in TG between highest and lowest quartile of fatty fish intake was -0.33 mmol/L (95% CI: -0.51, -0.15). Lean fish intake was inversely associated with TG in women only; mean difference in TG between highest and lowest quartile of lean fish intake was -0.23 mmol/L (95% CI: -0.34, -0.11). Fatty fish intake was positively associated with serum HDL-C in both men and women. Total fish intake was inversely associated with MetS; adjusted OR 0.75 (95% CI 0.57, 0.97). Higher fish intake was associated with lower odds of having MetS possibly driven by associations of higher fish intake with lower TG and higher HDL-C. The findings of differential associations by sex needs to be confirmed and possible biologic mechanisms explored.

Valvular heart disease (VHD), particularly aortic valve disease, is prevalent with increasing incidence. When surgery is not possible, or when risks outweigh benefits, percutaneous treatment options may offer effective alternatives. However, procedures may not always go as planned, and frail patients or those whose symptoms are caused by other comorbidities may not benefit from valve intervention at all. Significant effort should be made to assess frailty, comorbidities and patient goals prior to intervention. Palliative care (PC) should play a critical role in the care of patients with severe valve disease. PC is specialised medical care that aims to optimise health-related quality of life by managing symptoms and clarifying patient values and goals of care. It should be implemented at the time of diagnosis and continue throughout the disease course. Because of the paucity of studies dedicated to the provision of PC to patients with advanced VHD, further research is needed.

To examine the association between serum matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) levels and prognosis of acute ischemic stroke.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major public health concern in the United States with high prevalence, growing incidence, and serious adverse outcomes.

Insulin resistance has been postulated to play a central role in the co-appearance of various cardiovascular disease risk factors constituting the metabolic syndrome (MetS). There is evidence that altered cardiac autonomic function (CAF) may precede the onset of insulin resistance. Exercise training has been shown to improve CAF in different populations, yet little is known regarding the exercise dose response for CAF. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of different volumes of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and traditional moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) on CAF in participants with MetS.

The aim of this study is to investigate the utilisation of Medicare Benefit Scheme items for chronic disease in the management of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in general practice and to compare characteristics of CVD patients with and without a General Practice Management Plan (GPMP). Subgroup analysis of Treatment of Cardiovascular Risk using Electronic Decision Support (TORPEDO) baseline data was collected in a cohort comprising 6123 patients with CVD. The mean age (s.d.) was 71 (±13) years, 55% were male, 64% had a recorded diagnosis of coronary heart disease, 31% also had a diagnosis of diabetes and the mean number of general practice (GP) visits (s.d.) was 11 (±9) in 12 months. A total of 1955/6123 (32%) received a GPMP in the 12 months before data extraction; 1% received a Mental Health Plan. Factors associated with greater likelihood of receiving a GPMP were: younger age, had a diagnosis of diabetes, BMI > 30kgm-2, prescription of blood pressure-lowering therapy and more than ten general practice visits. Enhancing utilisation of existing schemes could augment systematic follow up and support of patients with CVD.

Adverse events from intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) are poorly documented yet essential to inform clinical practice for neonatal group B Streptococcus (GBS) disease prevention. In this systematic review, we appraised and synthesised the evidence on the adverse events of IAP in the mother and/or her child.

We evaluated safety and long-term outcome of endovascular therapy for steno-occlusive iliac artery disease. All endovascular procedures of iliac artery lesions performed at our institution between 2001 and 2014 (n = 676) were retrospectively analyzed. The overall technical success rate was 99% and yielded 100% for stenoses (n = 596) and 95% for chronic total occlusions (n = 80). Lesion complexity defined by the Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) II classification had no impact on success rates (TASC A + B vs C + D; 99.5% vs 98.6%, P = .359). During a median follow-up of 11 months, the overall rate of restenosis was 9.4%. After 1 and 3 years, the primary patency rates were 94% and 86% and the secondary patency rate was 100%, respectively. The TASC II classification had no impact on long-term patency rates (TASC A + B vs C + D; 86% vs 81%). In a multivariable analysis, stent diameter remained the only significant predictor for restenosis (hazard ratio: 0.58; 95% confidence interval: 0.41%-0.81%; P = .002). In this single-center retrospective study, endovascular therapy for steno-occlusive iliac artery disease was associated with high technical and clinical success rates as well as an excellent long-term patency rate irrespective of lesion complexity.

Prognosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is particularly heterogeneous. Patients with nonobstructive HCM (NOCM) are thought to be at relatively low-risk as compared with obstructive HCM (HOCM) with no need of major treatment options. However, available evidence of NOCM comes mainly from tertiary centers where a referral bias is likely to occur. Aim of this study was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the published literature on hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) in order to outline differences in presenting features and long-term outcome between NOCM and HOCM.

In general, adults with congenital heart disease (CHD) have impaired exercise capacity, and approximately 50% do not reach current recommendations on physical activity. Herein we analysed factors associated with physical activity level (PAL) in adults with CHD by using patient-reported outcomes (PRO).

Many patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE-ACS) are medically managed without coronary revascularization. The reasons vary and may impact prognosis.

Deregulation of folate and vitamin B12 (VB12) metabolism contributes to the risk of congenital heart defects (CHDs). Transcobalamin (TCN2) is essential for transporting VB12 from blood to cells as TCN2-bound VB12 (holo-TC) is the only form for somatic cellular uptake. In this study, we performed an association study between common polymorphisms in 46 one carbon metabolism genes and CHD in 412 CHDs and 213 controls. Only two significant association signals in coding regions were identified: FTCD c.1470C>T & TCN2 c.230A>T. The only missense mutation, TCN2 c.230A>T, was further validated in 412 CHDs and 1177 controls. TCN2c.230T is significantly associated with reduced CHD risk in North Chinese (odds ratio = 0.67, P = 4.62e-05), compared with the 230A allele. Interestingly, the mean level of plasma holo-TC in women with the TA genotype was 1.77-fold higher than that in women with the AA genotype. Further analysis suggested that c.230A>T enhanced the cellular uptake of holo-TC via the LRP2 receptor. Our results determined that a functional polymorphism in TCN2 contributes to the prevalence of CHDs. TCN2 c.230A>T is significantly associated with a reduced CHD risk, likely due to TCN2 c.230T improving the interaction between holo-TC and its LRP2 receptor.

Besides age, other discriminators of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk are needed in older adults.

Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) are the leading health problem globally and generate high numbers of premature deaths and loss of quality of life. The aim here was to describe the major groups of causes of death due to NCDs and the ranking of the leading causes of premature death between 1990 and 2015, according to the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2015 study estimates for Brazil.

To assess the effect of prayer on blood pressure, heart rate and respiratory rate in patients with chronic kidney disease and learn their perception of the intervention.

Symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, tightness of the chest, bradycardia, and shoulder or abdominal discomfort, caused by vagotonia occurring during uterus manipulation, have concerned healthcare professionals for some time. Patients sometimes report these symptoms when undergoing spinal anesthesia for cesarean sections (CSs). We designed a prospective, double-blind study to investigate the effectiveness of tenoxicam in preventing these symptoms of discomfort.

Children with congenital heart disease may require long-term central venous access for intensive care management; however, central venous access must also be preserved for future surgical and catheterization procedures. Transhepatic venous catheters may be an useful alternative. The objective of this study was to compare transhepatic venous catheters with traditional central venous catheters regarding complication rate and duration of catheter service.

We report a case of HeartWare ventricular assist device (HVAD) implant as a Bridge-to-Transplant in the smallest and the youngest known patient, a 32-month-old boy (body surface area of 0.66 m2) with known Kawasaki disease and giant coronary artery aneurysms. The disease course was complicated by coronary thromboembolism resulting in acute myocardial infarction, ventricular fibrillation, and cardiac arrest. After short-term support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for 7 days and long-term support with an HVAD for 5 months, he underwent heart transplantation and is doing well 2 months after the transplant.

A frequent observation during cardiac fibrillation is a fluctuation in complexity where the irregular pattern of the fibrillation is interrupted by more regular phases of varying length.

The Global burden of disease and injuries study (GBD 2015) reports expected measures for years of life lost (YLL) based on socio-demographic index (SDI) of countries, as well as the observed measures. In this extended GBD 2015 report, we reviewed total and cause-specific deaths and YLL for Iran and all its neighboring countries between 1990 and 2015.

Piscirickettsiosis (SRS) is the most prevalent bacterial disease in Chilean salmon aquaculture and is responsible for high economic losses. The aim of this study was to comparatively characterize the pathogenesis of SRS in post-smolt Atlantic salmon during the early and late stages of infection with Piscirickettsia salmonis LF-89-like (PS-LF-89) and EM-90-like (PS-EM-90) using a cohabitation challenge. The pathogenesis of cohabitant fish infected with the two isolates was relatively different due to cohabitant fish infected with PS-EM-90 showing higher cumulative mortality and shorter time until death compared with PS-LF-89 fish. PS-LF-89 caused an SRS infection characterized by kidney and liver lesions, whereas PS-EM-90 caused systemic and haemorrhagic disease characterized by kidney, liver, heart, brain, skeletal muscle and intestine lesions. Decreased serum concentration of total proteins and albumin as well as increased serum ALT, AST and creatinine levels in fish infected with both isolates confirmed that changes in liver and kidney function occurred during infection. Tissue damage, expressed as an SRS histoscore, showed a strong positive correlation with the bacterial load expressed as abundance of P. salmonis 16S rRNA transcripts in the livers and kidneys of fish affected with either isolate, but the correlation was significantly higher in fish infected with PS-EM-90. The results contribute to improving the understanding of the bacteria-host interaction.

We analyzed the impact of potent anti-hypertension or anti-thrombotic therapy after PCI in patients with coronary heart disease complicated with hypertension, whilst to reflect the prognosis by testing P-selectin.

To assess the required characteristics (cost, sensitivity and specificity) of a pharmacogenomic test for being a cost-effective prevention of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors induced angioedema. Furthermore, we assessed the influence of only testing high-risk populations.

The University of Michigan College of Pharmacy has made substantial investment in the area of pharmacogenomics to further bolster its activity in pharmacogenomics research, implementation and education. Four tenure-track faculty members have active research programs that focus primarily on the discovery of functional polymorphisms (HJ Zhu), and genetic associations with treatment outcomes in patients with cancer (DL Hertz), cardiovascular disease (JA Luzum) and psychiatric conditions (VL Ellingrod). Recent investments from the University and the College have accelerated the implementation of pharmacogenetics broadly across the institution and in targeted therapeutic areas. Students within the PharmD and other health science professions receive substantial instruction in pharmacogenomics, in preparation for careers in biomedical health in which they can contribute to the generation, dissemination and utilization of pharmacogenomics knowledge to improve patient care.

Advances in genetics allowed a better definition of the role of specific genetic background in the etiology of syndromic congenital heart defects (CHDs). The identification of a number of disease genes responsible for different syndromes have led to the identification of several transcriptional regulators and signaling transducers and modulators that are critical for heart morphogenesis. Understanding the genetic background of syndromic CHDs allowed a better characterization of the genetic basis of non-syndromic CHDs. In this sense, the well-known association of typical CHDs in Down syndrome, 22q11.2 microdeletion and Noonan syndrome represent paradigms as chromosomal aneuploidy, chromosomal microdeletion and intragenic mutation, respectively. Area covered: For each syndrome the anatomical features, distinctive cardiac phenotype and molecular mechanisms are discussed. Moreover, the authors include recent genetic findings that may shed light on some aspects of still unclear molecular mechanisms of these syndromes. Expert commentary: Further investigations are needed to enhance the translational approach in the field of genetics of CHDs. When there is a well-established definition of genotype-phenotype (reverse medicine) and genotype-prognosis (predictive and personalized medicine) correlations, hopefully preventive medicine will make its way in this field. Subsequently a reduction will be achieved in the morbidity and mortality of children with CHDs.

Premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) have always been a matter of debate among physicians and a cause for concern for family members of affected patients. The available literature on isolated PVCs in children is limited to case reports and small single-center retrospective series that are consistent in demonstrating the benign course of PVCs and their frequent disappearance during childhood, though many questions remain unanswered. Nevertheless, two key actions should be undertaken in pediatric patients with documented PVCs: 1) to rule out the presence of structural heart disease; 2) to determine whether symptoms are due to PVCs, or whether PVC frequency is responsible for left ventricular dysfunction. This document aims to provide concise and easy to understand recommendations on the diagnostic work-up of healthy children with simple PVCs and the appropriate clinical and therapeutic approach.

Associations between an elevated level of systemic trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) and an increased risk for adverse cardiovascular events have been proposed in recent years. Increasing experimental studies suggest a possible impact of TMAO in cardiovascular diseases. TMAO, the oxygenated product of TMA, is belonging to the class of amine oxides. Most of TMA derived from the bacterial metabolism of choline and L-carnitine is absorbed into the bloodstream, and then TMA is rapidly oxidized to TMAO by flavin-containing monooxygenase-3 (FMO3), a hepatic enzyme. Recent years, there has been considerable interest in the role of TMAO in various pathological states. Here we discuss the biosynthesis of TMAO and emerging clinical studies that have assessed TMAO as a biomarker for various cardiovascular and other diseases such as heart failure, kidney failure, thrombosis, cancer, obesity and atherosclerosis, and diabetes. We also summarize the interaction of TMAO with synthetic and traditional molecules that together affect circulating TMAO levels.

Ischemic cardiomyopathy (IC) is the major cause of heart failure. Conventional medicine has been proved ineffective with adverse effects. Soybean presents exciting adjunctive therapies and shows protective benefits for IC. However, the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Isoflavones are the main bioactive components of soybean and may be protective against heart disease. Isoflavones were extracted by using an acidic-ethanol method and analyzed by HPLC. All patients with ischemic stroke were randomly and evenly assigned to two groups: the isoflavone group (80 mg day(-1), n = 100) and control group (80 mg day(-1) placebo, n = 100), and the whole period of the experiment was 24 weeks. The effects of soybean isoflavone on brachial flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) were measured. HPLC fractionation shows that isoflavone extracts are mainly composed of 55% genistein, 23% daidzein, and 14% glycitein. Isoflavone therapy reduced more levels of triglyceride and LDL-c in females than in males. FMD was higher in the isoflavone group than in the control group after 24-week therapy (treatment effect 2.0%, 95% CI 0.18-3.0, P = 0.01). The baseline differences were adjusted in FMD and the isoflavone therapies were closely associated with the reduction of FMD impairment at 24 weeks (odds ratio 0.30, 95% CI 0.14-0.85, P = 0.01). The effects of isoflavone on brachial FMD were negatively associated with base FMD (r = -0.65, P < 0.01). Furthermore, isoflavone therapy caused a significant increase in the levels of erythroid-derived 2-like 2 (Nrf2), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and a significant decrease in serum levels of C-reactive protein, 8-isoprostane, malondialdehyde, interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha. In contrast, the isoflavones had no effects on the levels of oxidation-related molecules when Nrf2 was silenced. These results suggest that soybean isoflavones ameliorate IC patients by improving their antioxidant capacities via the upregulation of Nrf2.

Rheumatic fever (RF) and rheumatic heart disease (RHD) follow untreated S. pyogenes throat infections in children who present susceptible genes that favor the development of autoimmune reactions. In this review, we focus on the genes that confer susceptibility and on the autoimmune reactions that occur due to molecular mimicry between human-tissue proteins and streptococcal M protein. Polyarthritis is the initial manifestation, which can evolve to carditis and severe valve damage; these culminate in rheumatic heart disease (RHD) or Sydenham's chorea, which affects the central nervous system. A perspective on vaccine development to prevent the disease is also discussed.

The investigation of death in young (<35 years), previously fit individuals, calls for a detailed autopsy with emphasis placed upon the examination of the heart. In most instances, the cause of cardiac death can be identified during autopsy. However, a large percentage of sudden deaths remain unexplained even after comprehensive medicolegal investigation, including autopsy, and are labelled as autopsy-negative sudden unexplained cardiac death (SUD). Still, when you look to the law, an autopsy, a much needed truth-finding-instrument, usually is not mandatory and is left up to the discretion of various medical or legal authorities, which when making a decision, balance various, often conflicting interests of the state and society on the one hand and of the deceased and his family on the other. Cardiac molecular autopsy calls for a close cooperation between medical examiner, pathologist, family physician, cardiologist, geneticist, and the relatives. Multidisciplinary approach and the identification of genetic cause of SUD enable proper genetic counselling for surviving relatives as well as for implementing specific preventive/therapeutic strategies, e.g. implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) implantation.

Circulating miRNAs are potential biomarkers of the pathogenesis of certain diseases and in monitoring therapeutic responses. We hypothesized that serum miR-29 can determine risk of acute cardiac allograft rejection.

Preliminary data suggest that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with early heart failure (HF). However, whether nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is directly associated with echocardiographic changes in cardiac structure or function remains unknown.

Computational modeling may provide a quantitative framework for integrating multi-scale data to gain insight into mechanisms of heart disease, identify and test pharmacological and electrical therapy and interventions, and support clinical decisions. Patient-specific computational cardiac models can help guide such procedures, and cardiac inverse modelling is a promising alternative to adequately personalize these models. Indeed, full cardiac inverse modelling is currently becoming computationally feasible; however, fundamental work to assess the feasibility of emerging techniques is still needed. In this study, we use a PDE-constrained optimal control approach to numerically investigate the identifiability of an initial activation sequence from synthetic (partial) observations of the extracellular potential using the bidomain approximation and 2D representations of cardiac tissue. Our results demonstrate that activation times and duration of several stimuli can be recovered even with high levels of noise, that it is sufficient to sample the observations at the ECG-relevant sampling frequency of 1 kHz, and that spatial resolutions that are coarser than the standard in electrophysiological simulations can be used. The optimization of activation times is still effective when synthetic data are generated with a different cell membrane kinetics model than optimized for. The findings thus indicate that the presented approach has potential for finding activation sequences from clinical data modalities, as an extension to existing cardiac imaging approaches. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is characterized by underdevelopment of the mitral valve, left ventricle, and aorta and is ultimately palliated with a single-ventricle repair. Universally fatal in infancy prior to the advent of modern surgical techniques, the majority of HLHS patients will now reach adulthood. However, despite improvements in early survival, the HLHS population continues to face significant morbidity and early mortality. This review delineates common sources of patient morbidity and highlights areas in need of additional research for this growing segment of the adult congenital heart disease population.

Post-fracture mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients has been poorly studied. We report an absolute and relative excess all-cause mortality following a fracture in these patients compared to non-diabetic patients.

The purpose of this study is to compare the late outcome of aortic valve replacement with or without preoperative coronary artery disease, and with or without coronary artery bypass. Between 2014 and 2015, 291 patients underwent aortic valve replacement. Average follow-up term was 2.5 ± 2.2 years. The retrospective comparative study was performed between the patients with (n = 115) or without (n = 176) preoperative coronary artery disease (Study 1) and with (n = 93) or without (n = 198) coronary artery bypass grafting (Study 2). Study 1: male patients were more, and diabetes was more in the patients with coronary artery disease. Long-term survival rate was significantly low in the patients with coronary artery disease (p = 0.0002 by log rank test). Freedom from repeat coronary revascularization rate was lower in the patients with coronary artery disease (p = 0.02 by log rank test). Study 2: operation time (419 ± 130 vs 290 ± 101; p = 0.0001) was longer in the patients with coronary artery bypass grafting. Improvement of ejection fraction at follow-up was more in the patients with coronary artery bypass(114 ± 43 vs 104 ± 26%; p = 0.03). Long-term survival rate and freedom from major adverse cardiac event rater were not different with or without coronary artery bypass grafting (p = 0.26 and p = 0.59, respectively, by log rank test). Although prevalence of coronary artery disease inversely affected the long-term outcome of the aortic valve replacement, simultaneous coronary artery bypass did not. Aggressive simultaneous coronary revascularization would be important to improve the long-term outcome of aortic valve replacement.

The influence of bariatric surgery on cardiovascular risks in Chinese diabetic patients remains unclear. Here, we aimed to explore the impact of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery (RYGB) on cardiovascular risks in Chinese diabetic patients with obesity.

Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is an important cause of the heart failure. Timely diagnosis and optimal management decrease morbidity and mortality in heart failure patients. Although transthoracic echocardiography is used as the diagnostic test of choice in these patients, new modalities like speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) have promising results in diagnosing these patients in the earlier course of the disease. Advancements in cardiac imaging are expected as more clinical studies on the role of STE in different cardiac diseases that emerge. In this review article, we will discuss the basics of STE and its role in diagnosing DCM.

Inhibition of PCSK9 is a novel therapeutic strategy aimed at reducing low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and cardiovascular risk. Evolocumab is a fully humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9, an enzyme that binds to LDL receptors and prevents them from recycling to the hepatocyte surface. Clinical trials have demonstrated 50%-70% reductions in LDL-C with evolocumab when used in combination with statin therapy. The recent FOURIER trial demonstrated that evolocumab further reduces cardiovascular events, but not mortality, in high-risk patients already receiving statin therapy. Furthermore, evolocumab did not affect neurocognitive function and was not associated with antidrug-antibody production in over 60,000 patient-years of drug exposure. Appropriate candidates for evolocumab primarily are individuals at high cardiovascular risk, including those with familial hypercholesterolemia and/or established cardiovascular disease, who are already on statin therapy. At this time, the use of evolocumab monotherapy seems appropriate only for individuals deemed statin-intolerant despite attempting several statins. Consideration must be given toward patient willingness to self-inject evolocumab and issues concerning third-party coverage, given the current costs of evolocumab.

Mutations in the RMRP-gene, encoding the lncRNA component of the RNase MRP complex, are the origin of cartilage-hair hypoplasia. Cartilage-hair hypoplasia is associated with severe dwarfism caused by impaired skeletal development. However, it is not clear why mutations in RMRP RNA lead to skeletal dysplasia. Since chondrogenic differentiation of the growth plate is required for development of long bones, we hypothesized that RMRP RNA plays a pivotal role in chondrogenic differentiation. Expression of Rmrp RNA and RNase MRP protein subunits was detected in the murine growth plate and during the course of chondrogenic differentiation of ATDC5 cultures, where Rmrp RNA expression was found to be correlated with chondrocyte hypertrophy. Genetic interference with Rmrp RNA expression in ATDC5 cultures caused a deregulation of chondrogenic differentiation, with a prominent impact on hypertrophy and changes in pre-rRNA processing and rRNA levels. Promoter reporter studies showed that Rmrp RNA expression responds to chondrogenic morphogens. Chondrogenic trans-differentiation of cartilage-hair hypoplasia fibroblasts was impaired with a pronounced impact on hypertrophic differentiation. Together, our data show that RMRP RNA expression is regulated during different stages of chondrogenic differentiation and indicate that RMRP RNA may play a pivotal role in chondrocyte hypertrophy, with potential consequences for CHH pathobiology.

Paclitaxel-eluting balloon (PEB) angioplasty has superior efficacy compared with conventional balloon angioplasty (BA) for de novo lesions of superficial femoral artery (SFA). Studies investigating the angiographic and clinical performance of PEB angioplasty versus BA for in-stent restenosis of SFA are limited. We performed a randomized trial to investigate angiographic and clinical performance of PEB versus BA for in-stent restenosis of SFA.

Immigrants are sometimes found to have better health than locally born populations. We examined the mortality experience of South Asian origin and white European origin individuals living in Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a metaloenzyme that catalyzes dismutation of the hazardous superoxide radicals into less hazardous H2O2 and H2O. Here, we identified a homolog of MnSOD from big belly seahorse (Hippocampus abdominalis; HaMnSOD) and characterized its structural and functional features. HaMnSOD transcript possessed an open reading frame (ORF) of 672 bp which codes for a peptide of 223 amino acids. Pairwise alignment showed that HaMnSOD shared highest identity with rock bream MnSOD. Results of the phylogenetic analysis of HaMnSOD revealed a close proximity with rock bream MnSOD which was consistent with the result of homology alignment. The intense expression of HaMnSOD was observed in the ovary, followed by the heart and the brain. Further, immune related responses of HaMnSOD towards pathogenic stimulation were observed through bacterial and viral challenges. Highest HaMnSOD expression in response to stimulants Edwardsiella tarda, Streptococcus iniae, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly I:C) was observed in the late stage in the blood tissue. Xanthine/xanthine oxidase assay (XOD assay) indicated the ROS-scavenging ability of purified recombinant HaMnSOD (rHaMnSOD). The optimum conditions for the SOD activity of rHaMnSOD were pH 9 and the 25 °C. Collectively, the results obtained through the expressional analysis profiles and the functional assays provide insights into potential immune related and antioxidant roles of HaMnSOD in the big belly seahorse.

Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common and potentially serious postoperative complication after cardiac surgery, and it remains a cause of major morbidity and mortality. The aim of our study was to assess the prognostic illness severity score and to estimate the significant risk factors for poor outcome of patients with AKI requiring renal replacement therapy (RRT) after cardiac surgery.

In recent years, many studies have demonstrated that endogenous adenosine induced by ischemia postconditioning reduces apoptosis in animal and cell models, but no study has clearly elucidated the effects of hypoxia postconditioning (HPC) in human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) of flaps, and the subtype of adenosine receptors involved remains unknown. In our study, we sought to identify the roles of adenosine A2a receptor, NDRG3 (N-myc downstream-regulated gene 3) and Raf-ERK pathway in the anti-apoptotic effects of hypoxia postconditioning.

Adults with congenital heart disease (ACHD) have an increased risk for infective endocarditis (IE). In the last decade, the recommendations for IE prophylaxis have changed substantially. The knowledge level of patients about IE and IE prophylaxis has not been studied.

The majority of patients with congenital heart disease (CHD), nowadays, survives into adulthood and is faced with long-term complications. We aimed to study the basic demographic and clinical characteristics of adult patients with congenital heart disease (ACHD) in Greece.

Acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS) is an inflammatory lung injury induced by a variety of factors, and these diseases are associated with high rates of mortality due to the lack of effective treatments. Based on the latest research in ALI/ARDS, it is widely accepted that generalized inflammatory responses play a critical role in initiating and developing process of ALI/ARDS. We make a brief review on the immune-pathogenesis and the signaling pathways of ALI/ARDS from the perspective of inflammation, thereby helping develop novel therapeutic strategy for treatment of patients with ALI/ARDS.

In an attempt to increase the therapeutic potential for myocardial regeneration, there is a quest for new cell sources and types for cell therapy protocols. The pathophysiology of heart diseases may affect cellular characteristics and therapeutic results.

In the past 20 years, the trends of ischemic heart disease (IHD) mortality in China have been described in divergent claims. This research analyzes mortality trends for IHD by using the data from 102 continuous Disease Surveillance Points (DSP) from 1991 to 2009.

Serum calcium has been associated with cardiovascular disease in observational studies and evidence from randomized clinical trials indicates that calcium supplementation, which raises serum calcium levels, may increase the risk of cardiovascular events, particularly myocardial infarction.

International resuscitation guidelines recommend targeted temperature management (TTM) at 33°C to 36°C in unconscious patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest for at least 24 hours, but the optimal duration of TTM is uncertain.

To describe the epidemiology of noninvasive ventilation therapy for patients admitted to pediatric cardiac ICUs and to assess practice variation across hospitals.

Vitamin D has been traditionally recognized as a vitamin quintessential for bone-mineral health. In the past 2 decades, numerous experimental and observational studies have highlighted the role of vitamin D in immunity, metabolic syndrome (obesity and diabetes), cancers, renal disease, memory, and neurological dysfunction. In this article, we review important studies that focused on the impact of vitamin D on blood pressure, myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease, heart failure, and statin intolerance. Amidst the current pool of ambiguous evidence, we intend to discuss the role of vitamin D in "high-value cardiovascular health care".

Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are one of the newer classes of antiglycemic agents approved for the management of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Due to their unique mechanism of action, SGLT2 inhibitors have shown to be beneficial beyond glucose control. The improvement in cardiovascular (CV) outcomes was first observed in the landmark EMPA-REG OUTCOMES study. Following these results, numerous CV outcome trials were designed to identify whether the beneficial CV and renal effects observed with empagliflozin are unique or a drug class effect. The benefit of SGLT2 inhibition was confirmed by the CANagliflozin cardioVascular Assessment Study (CANVAS) Program, presented at the American Diabetes Association 77th Scientific Sessions. With over 10,000 patients, the CANVAS Program integrated data from two large CV outcome studies. Canagliflozin achieved a 14% reduction in the composite endpoint of CV mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), or nonfatal stroke, and a 33% reduction in the risk of hospitalization for heart failure (HF) compared with placebo. Potential renal protective effects were also observed with canagliflozin; however, an increased risk of amputation with canagliflozin was seen in both CANVAS studies. The class effect of SGLT2 inhibitors was also confirmed in new analyses of the The Comparative Effectiveness of Cardiovascular Outcomes (CVD-REAL) study, which aimed to evaluate SGLT2 inhibitors (dapagliflozin, canagliflozin, and empagliflozin) in broader patient populations with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In patients who were new to SGLT2 inhibitors, significant reductions in rates of CV death and hospitalization for HF were observed compared with any other glucose-lowering agents. SGLT2 inhibitors were also associated with lower rates in hospitalization for HF in patients with and without CV disease. In addition, substudies of the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial further provided insight on the efficacy of empagliflozin across categories of adjusted control of blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) over time.

Benefits of physical activity has been shown in children with congenital heart disease (CHD). In several forms of CHD, the risk of sudden death remains a major concern both for parents and clinicians, who in turn will have to consider the risk-benefit ratio of sport participation versus restriction.

Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is the most effective treatment for this disease. The cornerstone of the treatment of prostate cancer is inhibition of testosterone production which interrupts testosterone-induced growth of the prostate tumor. The dramatic decrease in testosterone levels, however, has several undesirable effects on the metabolic profile and bone metabolism and can also lead to fatigue, loss of libido, gynecomastia, and anemia, provoke vasomotor flushing, and generally affect the quality of life. Due to the long-term survival rates of patients with prostate cancer, treatment-related adverse effects are highly relevant and thus, in each clinical setting, the benefits of ADT must be weighed against treatment-related adverse effects. The current review focuses on the more recently described metabolic complications of androgen deprivation therapy, including obesity, diabetes, lipid alterations, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. In addition, it provides practical management recommendations drawn from the available guidelines issued by the American Diabetes Association and American Heart Association.

Heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction (HF-PEF) remains a difficult clinical diagnosis. The aim of this study was to test the utility of established criteria to classify patients with HF-PEF. We prospectively enrolled patients into one of five groups across a spectrum of cardiac disease and applied three different criteria for HF-PEF and calculated diagnostic metrics.

In 2012, the American College of Cardiology's (ACC) Adult Congenital and Pediatric Cardiology Council established a program to develop quality metrics to guide ambulatory practices for pediatric cardiology. The council chose five areas on which to focus their efforts; chest pain, Kawasaki Disease, tetralogy of Fallot, transposition of the great arteries after arterial switch, and infection prevention. Here, we sought to describe the process, evaluation, and results of the Infection Prevention Committee's metric design process.

End-stage heart failure (HF) is characterized by high symptom burden and frequent hospitalization. Palliative Care (PC) is recommended for advanced HF, and there is some evidence in other diseases that this may reduce readmission rates. We attempted examine the association of an inpatient PC visit on hospital readmission for patients admitted with HF.

Short telomeres and genetic telomerase defects are risk factors for some human liver diseases, ranging from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) to cirrhosis. In murine models, telomere dysfunction has been shown to metabolically compromise hematopoietic cells, liver, and heart via the activation of the p53-PGC axis METHODS: Tert- and Terc-deficient mice were challenged with liquid high fat diet (HFD). Liver metabolic contents were analyzed by CE-TOFMS and liver fat content was confirmed by confocal and electronic microscopy RESULTS: Tert-deficient but not Terc-deficient mice develop hepatocyte injury and frank steatosis when challenged with liquid HFD. Upon HFD, Tert(-/-) hepatocytes fail to engage the citric acid cycle (TCA), with an imbalance of NADPH/NADP+ and NADH/NAD+ ratios and depletion of intermediates of TCA cycle, such as cis-aconitic acid. Telomerase deficiency caused an intrinsic metabolic defect unresponsive to environmental challenge. Chemical inhibition of telomerase by zidovudine recapitulated the abnormal Tert(-/-) metabolic phenotype in Terc(-/-) hepatocytes CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that in telomeropathies short telomeres are not the only molecular trigger and telomerase enzyme deficiency provokes hepatocyte metabolic dysfunction, abrogates response to environmental challenge, and causes cellular injury and steatosis, providing a mechanism for liver damage in telomere diseases. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Left ventricular (LV) septal hypertrophy in aortic stenosis raises diagnostic and therapeutic questions. However, the etiology and clinical consequences of this finding have not been well studied. The aim of this study was to perform a morphologic evaluation of the LV in aortic stenosis and to investigate the contributing factors and consequences of septal hypertrophy.

To report whether the superiority of everolimus-eluting stent (EES) vs. paclitaxel-eluting stent (PES) at 1-year follow-up in the Taxus Element versus Xience Prime in a Diabetic Population (TUXEDO)-India trial were sustained with longer-term follow-up.

The EVOLVE China randomized study sought to evaluate clinical safety and effectiveness of the SYNERGY bioabsorbable polymer-coated everolimus-eluting stent (EES) for the treatment of patients with coronary heart disease in China.

Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is characterized by asymmetric left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). However, clinical signs can be subtle and differentiation from other causes of LVH is challenging.

Heart failure has a high prevalence in the general population. Morbidity and mortality of heart failure patients remain high, despite improvements in drug therapy, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and cardiac resynchronisation therapy. New transcatheter implantable devices have been developed to improve the treatment of heart failure. There has been a rapid development of minimally invasive or transcatheter devices used in the treatment of heart failure associated with aortic and mitral valve disease and these devices are being incorporated into routine clinical practice at a fast rate. Several other new transcatheter structural heart interventions for chronic heart failure aimed at a variety of pathophysiologic approaches are currently being developed. In this review, we focus on devices used in the treatment of chronic heart failure by means of left ventricular remodelling, left atrial pressure reduction, tricuspid regurgitation reduction and neuromodulation. The clinical evaluations of these devices are early-stage evaluations of initial feasibility and safety studies and additional clinical evidence needs to be gathered in appropriately designed clinical trials.

We conducted a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs to synthesize evidence about the efficacy and safety of alternate-day vs daily dosing of statins.

Fetal right ventricular (RV) prominence is a known indicator of possible left-sided structural heart disease with a low positive predictive value for aortic coarctation. There is a paucity of data on identifying which fetuses with RV prominence will have postnatal arch obstruction. Our study objectives were to create a clinical prediction tool for coarctation and to describe the diagnostic outcomes of our cohort with fetal RV prominence. We performed a retrospective review of patients referred with fetal RV prominence from January 2009 to October 2015. Recorded fetal echocardiographic variables included gestational age, semilunar and atrioventricular valve dimensions, left and right ventricular mid-cavitary dimensions, foramen ovale and aortic arch flow direction, and isthmal diameter. Postnatal cardiac and non-cardiac diagnoses were documented. We performed descriptive analysis for postnatal outcomes and classification tree analysis to create a clinical prediction tool. Eighty-eight patients were reviewed; 58 (66%) had abnormal postnatal echocardiograms, 45 (51%) had left-sided lesions, including 26 (30%) with coarctation, and 6 (7%) had pulmonary hypertension. Our clinical prediction tool employs gestational age, RV mid-cavitary dimension z-score, and isthmal diameter z-score to predict coarctation with 85% accuracy, 95% confidence interval [75.3, 92.4%]. Our model correctly classified 45/54 non-coarctation and 19/21 coarctation cases, with 90% sensitivity and 83% specificity. Developing an accurate prediction tool for coarctation in cases of fetal RV prominence is an important first step in improving our management of these challenging cases.

In 2005, the combined pulmonary fibrosis and emphysema (CPFE) was first defined as a distinct entity, which comprised centrilobular or paraseptal emphysema in the upper pulmonary lobes, and fibrosis in the lower lobes accompanied by reduced diffused capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO). Recently, the fibrosis associated with the connective tissue disease was also included in the diagnosis of CPFE, although the exposure to tobacco, coal, welding, agrochemical compounds, and tire manufacturing are the most frequent causative agents. This entity characteristically presents reduced DLCO with preserved lung volumes and severe pulmonary hypertension, which is not observed in emphysema and fibrosis alone. We present the case of a 63-year-old woman with a history of heavy tobacco smoking abuse, who developed progressive dyspnea, severe pulmonary hypertension, and cor pulmonale over a 2-year period. She attended the emergency facility several times complaining of worsening dyspnea that was treated as decompensate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The imaging examination showed paraseptal emphysema in the upper pulmonary lobes and fibrosis in the middle and lower lobes. The echo Doppler cardiogram revealed the dilation of the right cardiac chambers and pulmonary hypertension, which was confirmed by pulmonary trunk artery pressure measurement by catheterization. During this period, she was progressively restricted to the minimal activities of daily life and dependent on caregivers. She was brought to the hospital neurologically obtunded, presenting anasarca, and respiratory failure, which led her to death. The autopsy showed signs of pulmonary hypertension and findings of fibrosis and emphysema in the histological examination of the lungs. The authors highlight the importance of the recognition of this entity in case of COPD associated with severe pulmonary hypertension of unknown cause.

Secondary mitral regurgitation (MR) is frequent valvular heart disease and conveys worse prognostic. Therapeutic surgical or percutaneous options are available in the context of severe symptomatic secondary MR, but the best approach to treat these patients remains unclear, given the lack of clear clinical evidence of benefit. A comprehensive evaluation of the mitral valve apparatus and the left ventricle (LV) has the ability to clearly define and characterize the disease, and thus determine the best option for the patient to improve its clinical outcomes, as well as quality of life and symptoms. The current report reviews the mitral valve (MV) anatomy, the underlying mechanisms associated with secondary MR, the related therapeutic options available, and finally the usefulness of a multimodality imaging approach for the planning of surgical or percutaneous mitral valve intervention.

Double valve surgery is associated with an increased peri-operative morbidity and mortality. A less invasive right thoracotomy approach may be a viable alternative to median sternotomy surgery in these higher-risk patients.

The current study evaluated the safety and feasibility of staged ("hybrid") percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) followed by isolated minimally invasive mitral valve (MV) surgery [PCI + minimally invasive mitral valve surgery (MIMVS)], for patients with concomitant coronary artery and MV disease.

In patients requiring coronary revascularization and aortic valve replacement, a combined approach of percutaneous coronary intervention followed by minimally invasive aortic valve replacement may be a viable treatment strategy.

The optimal treatment for concomitant two-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD) and moderate to severe ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) remains unclear. We compared the results of a staged percutaneous coronary intervention followed by minimally invasive mitral valve surgery (PCI+MIVS) versus combined coronary artery bypass graft and mitral valve surgery (CABG+MVS) in this population.

Introduction: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the major causes of disability and death in the world. Accordingly utilizing from a national and update guideline in heart-related disease are essential. Finding interesting rules from CAD data and comparison with guidelines was the objectives of this study. Methods: In this study 1993 valid and completed records related to patients (from 2009 to 2014) who had suffered from CAD were recruited and analyzed. Total of 25 variable including a target variable (CAD) and 24 inputs or predictor variables were used for knowledge discovery. To perform comparison between extracted knowledge and well trusted guidelines, Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) guideline and US National Institute of Health (NIH) guideline were selected. Results of valid datamining rules were compared with guidelines and then were ranked based on their importance. Results: The most significant factor influencing CAD was chest pain. Elderly males (age >54) have a high probability to be diagnosed with CAD. Diagnostic methods that are listed in guidelines were confirmed and ranked based on analyzing of local CAD patients data. Knowledge discovery revealed that blood test has more diagnostic value among other medical tests that were recommended in guidelines. Conclusion: Guidelines confirm the achieved results from data mining (DM) techniques and help to rank important risk factors based on national and local information. Evaluation of extracted rules determined new patterns for CAD patients.

Introduction: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a prevalent condition which is known to be related to factors that predispose to the development of coronary artery disease as well as development of metabolic syndrome. The study aimed to determine the association between ultrasound-based grading of hepatic steatosis with metabolic profile and estimated cardiovascular risk using the Framingham Risk Score (FRS). Methods: This was a cross-sectional study on 100 Filipino patients without established cardiovascular disease who underwent a general wellness health evaluation. Cases with NAFLD diagnosed on the basis of ultrasound grading were analyzed. Comparison of demographics and metabolic parameters between grades of hepatic steatosis was performed using Kruskal Wallis test. FRS was used to assess cardiovascular risk with Spearman rank test for correlation with the degree of NAFLD. Results: Mean age was 47 ± 9.6 years, with 70% males. Mean body mass index (BMI) was 28.7 ± 5.1. Most patients had grade I NAFLD (53%), 34% were grade II, and 13% were grade III. BMI (P =0.034), liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], P = 0.001; aspartate aminotransferase [AST], P = 0.00), triglycerides (P = 0.047), and fasting blood sugar [FBS] (P = 0.049) were associated with fatty liver grade. No association was noted with total cholesterol (P = 0.569), high density lipoprotein (HDL) (P = 0.220), and low density lipoprotein (LDL) (P = 0.792). Using the FRS 43% were stratified as low (<10% risk), 45% as intermediate (10%-20% risk) and 12% as high risk (>20% risk). Severity of fatty liver was directly correlated with the FRS (Spearman rank 0.741, P = 0.009). Conclusion: Ultrasound-based grading of the severity of NAFLD is associated with abnormalities in the metabolic profile of patients. The FRS is correlated with increasing severity of NAFLD based on ultrasound. These findings suggest that the presence of NAFLD may be a marker for the presence of increased cardiovascular risk and may help identify patients who may benefit from more aggressive therapies to prevent development of adverse cardiovascular events.

Introduction: Development of pulmonary insufficiency in patients with surgically corrected tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) may lead to severe right heart failure with serious consequences. We herein present our experience with pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) in these patients. Methods: From 2005-2013, 99 consecutive patients (71 males/28 females, mean age 38±8 years), underwent PVR after 7 to 40 (mean 29 ± 8) years from the initial correction. Seventy nine of the symptomatic patients presented in NYHA II, 14 in III and 2 in IV. All underwent PVR with a stented bioprosthetic valve, employing a beating heart technique with normothermic extracorporeal circulation support. Concomitant procedures included resection of aneurysmal outflow tract patches (n = 37), tricuspid valve annuloplasty (n = 36), augmentation of stenotic pulmonary arteries (n = 9), maze procedure (n = 2) and pulmonary artery stenting (n = 4). Results: There were 2 perioperative deaths (2%). One patient developed sternal dehiscence requiring rewiring. Median ICU and hospital stay was 1 and 7 days respectively. Postoperative echocardiography at 6 and 12 months showed excellent bioprosthetic valve performance, significant decrease in size of the right cardiac chambers and reduction of tricuspid regurgitation (TR) in the majority of the patients. At mean follow-up of 3.6 ± 2 years, all surviving patients remain in excellent clinical condition. Conclusion: Probability of reoperation for pulmonary insufficiency in patients with surgically corrected TOF increases with time and timely PVR by preventing the development of right heart failure is crucial for long-term survival. Current bioprosthetic valve technology in combination with the beating heart technique provides excellent immediate and short-term results. Further follow-up is necessary to evaluate long-term outcome.

Testosterone (T) has a number of important effects on the cardiovascular system. In men, T levels begin to decrease after age 40, and this decrease has been associated with an increase in all-cause mortality and cardiovascular (CV) risk. Low T levels in men may increase their risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD), metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes. Reduced T levels in men with congestive heart failure (CHF) portends a poor prognosis and is associated with increased mortality. Studies have reported a reduced CV risk with higher endogenous T concentration, improvement of known CV risk factors with T therapy, and reduced mortality in T-deficient men who underwent T replacement therapy versus untreated men. Testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) has been shown to improve myocardial ischemia in men with CAD, improve exercise capacity in patients with CHF, and improve serum glucose levels, HbA1c, and insulin resistance in men with diabetes and prediabetes. There are no large long-term, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trials to provide definitive conclusions about TRT and CV risk. However, there currently is no credible evidence that T therapy increases CV risk and substantial evidence that it does not. In fact, existing data suggests that T therapy may offer CV benefits to men.

In patients with acromegaly, chronic excess of growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) leads to the development of acromegalic cardiomyopathy. Its main features are biventricular hypertrophy, diastolic dysfunction, and in later stages, systolic dysfunction and congestive heart failure. Surgical and/or pharmacological treatment of acromegaly and control of cardiovascular risk factors help reverse some of these pathophysiologic changes and decrease the high risk of cardiovascular complications.

The parathyroid glands are critical to maintaining calcium homeostasis through actions of parathyroid hormone (PTH). Recent clinical and molecular research has shown that direct and indirect actions of PTH also affect the heart and vasculature through downstream actions of G protein-coupled receptors in the myocardium and endothelial cells. Patients with disorders of the parathyroid gland have higher incidences of hypertension, arrhythmias, left ventricular hypertrophy, heart failure, and calcific disease which translate into increased cardiac morbidity and mortality. Importantly, clinical research also suggests that early treatment of parathyroid disorders through medical or surgical management may reverse cardiovascular remodeling and mitigate cardiac risk factors.

Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is when fetuses and newborn infants have not reached their true growth potential as genetically defined. Fetuses with IUGR develop in a less than ideal environment that leads to epigenetic changes and marks infants' metabolism for the rest of their lives. Epigenetic changes affect insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels and lead to insulin resistance and ultimately to a metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is a constellation of illnesses that raise one's risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and ischemic heart disease, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, central obesity, insulin resistance, and inflammation. The association between IUGR or prematurity and long-term insulin resistance, obesity, hypertension, and metabolic syndrome remains unclear. While studies have shown an association, others have not supported such association. If alteration of intrauterine growth can ultimately lead to the development of metabolic derangements in childhood and adulthood, and if such association is true, then early interventions targeting the health of pregnant women will ensure the health of the population to follow.

Left ventricle and left atrium are and have been practically always analyzed separately in common clinically and non-clinically oriented cardiovascular investigations. Both classic and speckle tracking echocardiographic data contributed to the knowledge about deformational impairments occurring in systo-diastolic differences. Recently new trajectory based approaches allowed a greater awareness about the entire left ventricle or left atrium revolution and on their deficiencies that take place in presence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. However, surprisingly, the concomitant function of the two left heart chambers has not been analyzed for their geometrical/mechanical relationship. For the first time we study here, by acquiring left ventricle and left atrial geometries on the same heartbeat, the trajectory attributes of the entire left heart treated as a whole shape and the shape covariation of its two subunits. We contrasted healthy subjects with patients affected by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. We found impaired left heart trajectory mainly in terms of orientation and size. More importantly, we found profound differences in the direction of morphological covariation of left ventricle and left atrium. These findings open to new perspectives in pathophysiological evaluation of different diseases by allowing the appreciation of concomitant functioning of both left heart whole geometry and of its two chambers.

Plakophilin-2 (PKP2) is a component of the desmosome and known for its role in cell-cell adhesion. Mutations in human PKP2 associate with a life-threatening arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy, often of right ventricular predominance. Here, we use a range of state-of-the-art methods and a cardiomyocyte-specific, tamoxifen-activated, PKP2 knockout mouse to demonstrate that in addition to its role in cell adhesion, PKP2 is necessary to maintain transcription of genes that control intracellular calcium cycling. Lack of PKP2 reduces expression of Ryr2 (coding for Ryanodine Receptor 2), Ank2 (coding for Ankyrin-B), Cacna1c (coding for CaV1.2) and Trdn (coding for triadin), and protein levels of calsequestrin-2 (Casq2). These factors combined lead to disruption of intracellular calcium homeostasis and isoproterenol-induced arrhythmias that are prevented by flecainide treatment. We propose a previously unrecognized arrhythmogenic mechanism related to PKP2 expression and suggest that mutations in PKP2 in humans may cause life-threatening arrhythmias even in the absence of structural disease.It is believed that mutations in desmosomal adhesion complex protein plakophilin 2 (PKP2) cause arrhythmia due to loss of cell-cell communication. Here the authors show that PKP2 controls the expression of proteins involved in calcium cycling in adult mouse hearts, and that lack of PKP2 can cause arrhythmia in a structurally normal heart.

The Cardiomyopathy-associated gene 5 (Cmya5) encodes myospryn, a large tripartite motif (TRIM)-related protein found predominantly in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Cmya5 is an expression biomarker for a number of diseases affecting striated muscle and may also be a schizophrenia risk gene. To further understand the function of myospryn in striated muscle, we searched for additional myospryn paralogs. Here we identify a novel muscle-expressed TRIM-related protein minispryn, encoded by Fsd2, that has extensive sequence similarity with the C-terminus of myospryn. Cmya5 and Fsd2 appear to have originated by a chromosomal duplication and are found within evolutionarily-conserved gene clusters on different chromosomes. Using immunoaffinity purification and mass spectrometry we show that minispryn co-purifies with myospryn and the major cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) from heart. Accordingly, myospryn, minispryn and RyR2 co-localise at the junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum of isolated cardiomyocytes. Myospryn redistributes RyR2 into clusters when co-expressed in heterologous cells whereas minispryn lacks this activity. Together these data suggest a novel role for the myospryn complex in the assembly of ryanodine receptor clusters in striated muscle.

BACKGROUND A retrospective analysis was conducted of the early and long-term outcomes after surgery for infective endocarditis (IE). MATERIAL AND METHODS We included 360 patients with IE operated upon between 1993 and 2012. The primary endpoint was overall cumulative postoperative survival at 30 days. Secondary endpoints were early postoperative outcomes and complication rates. Factors associated with 30-day mortality were analyzed. RESULTS Mean age was 58.7±14.7 years and 26.9% (n=97) were female. The mean follow-up was 4.41±4.53 years. Postoperative survival was 81.7% at 30 days, 69.4% at 1 year, 63.3% at 5 years, and 63.3% at 10 years. Non-survivors were significantly older (p=0.014), with higher NYHA Class (p=0.002), had higher rates of preoperative diabetes mellitus (p=0.005), renal failure (p=0.001), and hepatic disease (p=0.002). Furthermore, non-survivors had higher baseline alanine aminotransferase (ALT, p=0.048), aspartate transaminase (AST, p=0.027), bilirubin (p=0.013), white cell count (WCC, p=0.034), and CRP (p=0.049). Factors associated with 30-day mortality were longer duration of surgery, CPB, and aortic cross-clamping times (p<0.001, p<0.001, and p=0.003, respectively), as well as higher RBC, FFP, and platelet transfusion requirements (p<0.001, p=0.005, and p<0.001, respectively). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed liver cirrhosis (OR 4.583, 95-CI: 1.096-19.170, p=0.037) and longer CPB time (OR 1.025, 95-CI 1.008-1.042, p=0.004) as independent predictors of 30-day mortality. CONCLUSIONS Surgical treatment of IE shows satisfactory early, midterm, and long-term results. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed cirrhosis and longer CPB time as independent predictors of 30-day mortality.

Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is a rare genetic condition associated with mutations in the LMNA gene. This disease recapitulates some aspects of normal aging, such as hair loss, thin skin, joint stiffness, and atherosclerosis. The latter leads to heart attack or stroke that causes death at an average age of 14.6 years in children with HGPS. The typical LMNA mutation results in the production of a truncated prelamin A protein, progerin, that remains permanently farnesylated and abnormally associated with the nuclear envelope. Farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) reverse nuclear structure abnormalities that are characteristic of HGPS cells. The first clinical trial using the FTI, Ionafarnib, demonstrated some improvements in HGPS children and, in particular, showed a decrease in arterial stiffness. Recently, we reported that sulforaphane, an antioxidant derived from cruciferous vegetables, efficiently stimulates autophagy and enhances progerin clearance in HGPS fibroblasts. In the present study, we investigated the effect of combined lonafarnib and sulforaphane treartment in HGPS fibroblast cultures. We report that co-administration of both drugs exerts a synergistic and additive positive effect on autophagy activity but was cytotoxic to HGPS cells. In contrast, intermittent treatment with lonafarnib followed by sulforaphane separately and in repeated cycles rescued the HGPS cellular phenotype. We propose that intermittent treatment with FTI and SFN separately might be a promising therapeutic avenue for children with HGPS.

Elevated blood pressure is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and has a substantial genetic contribution. Genetic variation influencing blood pressure has the potential to identify new pharmacological targets for the treatment of hypertension. To discover additional novel blood pressure loci, we used 1000 Genomes Project-based imputation in 150 134 European ancestry individuals and sought significant evidence for independent replication in a further 228 245 individuals. We report 6 new signals of association in or near HSPB7, TNXB, LRP12, LOC283335, SEPT9, and AKT2, and provide new replication evidence for a further 2 signals in EBF2 and NFKBIA Combining large whole-blood gene expression resources totaling 12 607 individuals, we investigated all novel and previously reported signals and identified 48 genes with evidence for involvement in blood pressure regulation that are significant in multiple resources. Three novel kidney-specific signals were also detected. These robustly implicated genes may provide new leads for therapeutic innovation.

CFB (complement factor B) is elevated in adipose tissue and serum from patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease, but the causal relationship to disease pathogenesis is unclear. Cfb is also elevated in adipose tissue and serum of the spontaneously hypertensive rat, a well-characterized model of metabolic syndrome. To establish the role of CFB in metabolic syndrome, we knocked out the Cfb gene in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Cfb(-/-) rats showed improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity, redistribution of visceral to subcutaneous fat, increased adipocyte mitochondrial respiration, and marked changes in gene expression. Cfb(-/-) rats also had lower blood pressure, increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening, and reduced left ventricular mass. These changes in metabolism and gene expression, in adipose tissue and left ventricle, suggest new adipose tissue-intrinsic and blood pressure-independent mechanisms for insulin resistance and cardiac hypertrophy in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. In silico analysis of the human CFB locus revealed 2 cis-regulated expression quantitative trait loci for CFB expression significantly associated with visceral fat, circulating triglycerides and hypertension in genome-wide association studies. Together, these data demonstrate a key role for CFB in the development of spontaneously hypertensive rat metabolic syndrome phenotypes and of related traits in humans and indicate the potential for CFB as a novel target for treatment of cardiometabolic disease.

Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) can recapitulate features of ion channel mutations causing inherited rhythm disease. However, the lack of maturity of these cells is considered a significant limitation of the model. Prolonged culture of hiPSC-CMs promotes maturation of these cells. We studied the electrophysiological effects of the I230T mutation in the sodium channel gene SCN5A in hiPSC-CMs generated from a homozygous (I230T(homo)) and a heterozygous (I230T(het)) individual from a family with recessive cardiac conduction disease. Since the I230T mutation occurs in the developmentally regulated "adult" isoform of SCN5A, we investigated the relationship between the expression fraction of the adult SCN5A isoform and the electrophysiological phenotype at different time points in culture.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) has been associated with faster cognitive decline and increased dementia risk. Factors associated with dementia in patients with AF have been seldom studied.

Mitochondria are heterogeneous and essentially contribute to cellular functions and tissue homeostasis. Mitochondrial dysfunction compromises overall cell functioning, tissue damage, and diseases. The advances in mitochondrion biology increase our understanding of mitochondrial dynamics, bioenergetics, and redox homeostasis, and subsequently, their functions in tissue homeostasis and diseases, including cardiometabolic diseases (CMDs). The functions of mitochondria mainly rely on the enzymes in their matrix. Sirtuins are a family of NAD(+)-dependent deacylases and ADP-ribosyltransferases. Three members of the Sirtuin family (SIRT3, SIRT4, and SIRT5) are located in the mitochondrion. These mitochondrial Sirtuins regulate energy and redox metabolism as well as mitochondrial dynamics in the mitochondrial matrix and are involved in cardiovascular homeostasis and CMDs. In this review, we discuss the advances in our understanding of mitochondrial Sirtuins in mitochondrion biology and CMDs, including cardiac remodeling, pulmonary artery hypertension, and vascular dysfunction. The potential therapeutic strategies by targetting mitochondrial Sirtuins to improve mitochondrial function in CMDs are also addressed.

Severe mitral regurgitation is a common and complex disease that is associated with an adverse prognosis. For decades, surgical treatment has been the standard of care. Recently, multiple technologies for transcatheter mitral therapy have emerged, with the potential for both repair and replacement in patients with native mitral regurgitation. Transcatheter mitral technologies have potential as solutions for unmet clinical needs. Further rigorous clinical studies are needed to determine their efficacy and safety, as well as the appropriate patient candidates. These evaluations will help to define the role of transcatheter mitral therapy as a potentially exciting new strategy to improve the lives of patients with mitral regurgitation.

Improvements in surgery have resulted in more women with repaired congenital heart disease (CHD) surviving to adulthood. Women with CHD, who wish to embark on pregnancy require prepregnancy counselling. This consultation should cover several issues such as the long-term prognosis of the mother, fertility and miscarriage rates, recurrence risk of CHD in the baby, drug therapy during pregnancy, estimated maternal risk and outcome, expected fetal outcomes and plans for pregnancy. Prenatal genetic testing is available for those patients with an identified genetic defect using pregestational diagnosis or prenatal diagnosis chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis. Centralisation of care is needed for high-risk patients. Finally, currently there are no recommendations addressing the issue of the delivery. It is crucial that a dedicated plan for delivery should be available for all cardiac patients. The maternal mortality in low-income to middle-income countries is 14 times higher than in high-income countries and needs additional aspects and dedicated care.

Bevacizumab combined with standard chemotherapeutics has become a choice of treatment for several kinds of cancers. Hypertension, third-degree albuminuria, thrombosis and cardiotoxicity are the reported side-effects of bevacizumab. Among them, cardiotoxicity is a most severe, but rare outcome. We report a case of a 62-year-old female with colorectal carcinoma who was given bevacizumab-containing chemotherapy for more than 20 months and achieved a stable disease during the entire course of treatment. Thereafter, she developed cardiotoxicity including grade 3 hypertension, tricuspid regurgitation, pulmonary hypertension, left ventricular diastolic dysfunction and pericardial effusion, and was discontinued from the regimen with bevacizumab.

Sepsis syndrome, comprising sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock, is a leading cause of child mortality and morbidity, for which the delivery of time-sensitive care leads to improved survival. We aimed to describe the development and testing of quality measures for in-hospital care of pediatric sepsis syndrome.

Aldosterone (Aldo) could induce cardiac fibrosis, a hallmark of heart disease. Aldo direct effects on collagen production in cardiac fibroblasts remain controversial. Our aim is to characterize changes in the proteome of adult human cardiac fibroblasts treated with Aldo to identify new proteins altered that might be new therapeutic targets in cardiovascular diseases. Aldo increased collagens expressions in human cardiac fibroblasts. Complementary, using a quantitative proteomic approach, 30 proteins were found differentially expressed between control and Aldo-treated cardiac fibroblasts. Among these proteins, 7 were up-regulated and 23 were down-regulated by Aldo. From the up-regulated proteins, collagen type I, collagen type III, collagen type VI and S100-A11 were verified by Western blot. Moreover, protein interaction networks revealed a functional link between a third of Aldo-modulated proteome and specific survival routes. S100-A11 was identified as a possible link between Aldo and collagen. Interestingly, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knock-down of S100-A11 blocked Aldo-induced collagen production in human cardiac fibroblasts. In adult human cardiac fibroblasts treated with Aldo, proteomic analyses revealed an increase in collagen production. S100-A11 was identified as a new regulator of Aldo-induced collagen production in human cardiac fibroblasts. These data could identify new candidate proteins for the treatment of cardiac fibrosis in cardiovascular diseases.

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is a feared complication of peripheral vascular disease that often requires surgical management and may require amputation of the affected limb. We developed a decision model to inform clinical management for a 63-year-old woman with CLI and multiple medical comorbidities, including advanced heart failure and diabetes.

Frailty has been increasingly used as a prognostic indicator for various surgical operations. Patients with peripheral arterial disease represent a cohort of population with advanced medical comorbidities. The aim of this study is to correlate the postoperative outcomes after lower extremity bypass surgery with pre operative modified frailty index.

Data concerning the association of serum levels of vitamin D and metalloproteinases and vitamin D receptor gene polymorphism with coronary artery disease (CAD) is not fully demonstrated. The present study aimed to evaluate the association of vitamin D receptor gene polymorphism, serum levels of 25(OH) vitamin D and metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) with CAD.

Neurocysticercosis is a major cause of epilepsy in countries where Taenia solium is endemic and the parasite is a major cause of food-borne disease globally. Pigs are the natural intermediate host involved in transmission of the parasite. T. solium is known to be endemic in Nepal, however there is limited reliable data about the prevalence of the disease in Nepal. The aim of this study was to determine accurately the prevalence of porcine cysticercosis in slaughter age pigs in an area of Nepal where pigs are known to be free-roaming. Pigs were obtained from the Udaypur Village Development Committee (VDC) and Hirminiya & Betahani VDC of the Banke district in Nepal. One hundred and ten animals of slaughter age (approximately 8-16 months old) were purchased, slaughtered and the heart, liver, brain and half the body skeletal musculature were sliced using hand knives and the number and viability of T. solium cysts determined. Thirty two of the 110 animals were found to harbour T. solium cysticerci (29%), of which 30 (27%) were found to have viable cysticerci (93% of the infected animals). This is one of the highest prevalences of porcine cysticercosis that has been reported to date from the results of necropsy on randomly selected animals. This study highlights a high rate of transmission of T. solium in the Banke District of Nepal. It encourages further investigation of human and porcine cysticercosis in Nepal, as well as implementation of efforts to reduce transmission of the parasite and the associated human disease.

The amyloidoses are a group of systemic diseases characterized by organ deposition of misfolded protein fragments of diverse origins. The natural history of the disease, involvement of other organs, and treatment options vary significantly based on the protein of origin. In AL amyloidosis, amyloid protein is derived from immunoglobulin light chains, and most often involves the kidneys and the heart. ATTR amyloidosis is categorized as mutant or wild-type depending on the genetic sequence of the transthyretin (TTR) protein produced by the liver. Wild-type ATTR amyloidosis mainly involves the heart, although the reported occurrence of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, spinal stenosis and biceps tendon rupture in these patients speaks to more generalized protein deposition. Mutant TTR is marked by cardiac and/or peripheral nervous system involvement. Cardiac involvement is associated with symptoms of heart failure, and dictates the clinical course of the disease. Cardiac amyloidosis can be diagnosed noninvasively by echocardiography, cardiac MRI, or nuclear scintigraphy. Endomyocardial biopsy may be needed in the case of equivocal imaging findings or discordant data. Treatment is aimed at relieving congestive symptoms and targeting the underlying amyloidogenic process. This includes anti-plasma cell therapy in AL amyloidosis, and stabilization of the TTR tetramer or inhibition of TTR protein production in ATTR amyloidosis. Cardiac transplantation can be considered in highly selected patients in tandem with therapy aimed at suppressing the amyloidogenic process, and appears associated with durable long-term survival.

This educational content was derived from live, satellite symposium at the American College of Physicians (ACP) Internal Medicine Meeting 2017 in San Diego, California (online at http://courses.elseviercme.com/acp/702e). This activity will focus on optimized treatment plans for patients with dyslipidemia in the era of PCSK9 inhibitor therapeutics. LDL-C has been identified as an important therapeutic target to prevent the progression of atherosclerotic disease, however only 1 out of every 3 adults with high LDL-C has the condition under control. Expert faculty on this panel will discuss the science of PCSK9 inhibitors and aid physicians in the best practices to get their patients at LDL-C target.

The fluidity of dietary fatty acids consumed has been suggested to inversely affect coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Lipophilic index (LI) represents overall fluidity of the dietary fatty acid profile. Lipophilic load (LL) represents a combination of overall fluidity and absolute intake of dietary fatty acids. We investigated the relations of dietary LI and LL with risk of CHD and ischemic stroke (iStroke).

To date, most comorbidity studies have analyzed either a subgroup of frequent diseases, or used summary instruments such as the Charlson score or the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatric (CIRS-G). Yet, comorbidity is a multidimensional construct and impacts function, treatment tolerance, and survival. We assessed how heat maps can unveil specific patterns of comorbidities associated with overall survival (OS) in older cancer patients treated with chemotherapy.

To assess the repeatability and characteristics of echocardiographic indices of the right ventricular (RV) function derived from speckle-tracking echocardiography.

Brugada syndrome (BrS) is an arrhythmogenic disease reported to be one among the leading causes of cardiac death in subjects under the age of 40 years. In these patients, episodes of lethal arrhythmias may be induced by several factors or situations, and for this reason, management during anesthesia and surgery must provide some precautions and drugs restrictions. To date, it is difficult to formulate guidelines for anesthetic management of patients with BrS because of the absence of prospective studies, and there is not a definite recommendation for neither general nor regional anesthesia, and there are no large studies in merit. For this reason, in the anesthesia management of patients with BrS, the decision of using each drug must be made after careful consideration and always in controlled conditions, avoiding other factors that are known to have the potential to induce arrhythmias and with a close cooperation between anesthetists and cardiologists, which is essential before and after surgery. In conclusion, given the absence of large studies in literature, we want to focus on some general rules, which resulted from case series and clinical practice, to be followed during the perioperative and anesthetic management of patients with BrS.

Perturbations on the Left-Right axis establishment lead to laterality defects, with frequently associated Congenital Heart Diseases (CHDs). Indeed, in the last decade, it has been reported that the etiology of isolated cases of CHDs or cases of laterality defects with associated CHDs is linked with variants of genes involved in the Nodal signaling pathway.

Vascular assessment is becoming increasingly important in the diagnosis of cardiovascular diseases. In particular, clinical assessment of arterial stiffness, as measured by pulse wave velocity (PWV), is gaining increased interest due to the recognition of PWV as an influential factor on the prognosis of hypertension as well as being an independent predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Whilst age and blood pressure are established as the two major determinants of PWV, the influence of heart rate on PWV measurements remains controversial with conflicting results being observed in both acute and epidemiological studies. In a majority of studies investigating the acute effects of heart rate on PWV, results were confounded by concomitant changes in blood pressure. Observations from epidemiological studies have also failed to converge, with approximately just half of such studies reporting a significant blood-pressure-independent association between heart rate and PWV. Further to the lack of consensus on the effects of heart rate on PWV, the possible mechanisms contributing to observed PWV changes with heart rate have yet to be fully elucidated, although many investigators have attributed heart-rate related changes in arterial stiffness to the viscoelasticity of the arterial wall. With elevated heart rate being an independent prognostic factor of cardiovascular disease and its association with hypertension, the interaction between heart rate and PWV continues to be relevant in assessing cardiovascular risk.

With cardiovascular disease accounting for approximately 50% of deaths in patients diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, it is pertinent to initiate anti-diabetic medications with cardiovascular benefits. This systematic clinical review critically examines the clinical therapeutic effect of lixisenatide.

Cardiovascular complications induced by high fat are one of the most challenging health problems presently. Oxidative stress, inflammation and fibrosis are major components included in the pathology of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) has been reported as an essential therapeutic target in various diseases for its induction of anti-oxidant enzymes, and other protective enzymes. Additionally, a number of Nrf2 activators showed strong anti-inflammatory properties. In the study, we calculated the Nrf2-dependent anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrosis effects of chrysophanol in high fat diet-induced diabetic heart injury. The underlying mechanisms of chrysophanol were explored using H9C2 cells in vitro. For the in vivo experiment, cardiac injury was triggered in wild type (Nrf2(+/+)) and Nrf2-knockout (Nrf2(-/-)) mice by high fat diet, and chrysophanol was administered after high fat feeding for two weeks. In Nrf2(+/+) mice, but not the Nrf2(-/-) animals, chrysophanol ameliorated metabolic disorders, improved cardiac function, reduced pathological changes, attenuated oxidative injury, down-regulated inflammatory response and fibrosis progression through regulating different signaling pathways. Our data indicated that the anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrosis effects of chrysophanol are regulated by Nrf2 expression. Thus, we supposed that chrysophanol could be used as a safe therapeutic strategy to ameliorate cardiac injury induced by high fat diet.

