There has been a resurgence of interest in brown adipose tissue (BAT) over the last decade. Key to this has been our ability to accurately image it, which has improved significantly. The role of BAT in regulating energy expenditure is important, and its pharmacological manipulation may hold therapeutic potential in metabolic disease. There is ample evidence of BAT activation by cold exposure, and pharmacological utilisation of similar pathways, using B3 receptor agonists holds promise since the development of selective agonists with limited cross-reactivity has rekindled interest. Endogenous agents like irisin, FGF21 and certain gut hormones may hold value as BAT activators. Other agents such as steroid hormones may also hold therapeutic potential, although short-term worsening of metabolic profile remains problematic. Clearly, pharmacological manipulation of BAT is important, and thanks to recent advances we may one day be able to add such agents to our anti-obesity arsenal.

Animal models of dementia associated with metabolic abnormalities play an important role in understanding the bidirectional relationships between these pathologies. Rodent strains develop cognitive dysfunctions without alteration of peripheral metabolism following intracerebroventricular administration of streptozotocin (icv-STZ).

While some studies have suggested associations between shift work and obesity, few have been population-based or considered multiple shift schedules. Since obesity is linked with several chronic health conditions, understanding which types of shift work influence obesity is important and additional work with more detailed exposure assessment of shift work is warranted.

We explore the association with self-reported asthma and pulmonary function based on spirometry measurements using different measures to determine obesity because body mass index (BMI) is limited in not differentiating fat and muscle mass.

Obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS) are key risk factors for chronic disease. Dietary patterns are critical in the incidence and persistence of obesity and MetS, yet there is few data linking diet to obesity and MetS in Chile. Our objective was to use a locally validated diet index to evaluate adherence to a Mediterranean dietary pattern and its correlations with overweight/obesity (OW/O) and MetS prevalence in Chilean adults. We conducted a nationwide, cross-sectional online survey of Chilean adults with complete self-reported diet and body mass index data (n = 24,882). A subsample of 4348 users (17.5%) had valid MetS data. An inverse association was observed between adherence to Mediterranean diet and OW/O and MetS prevalence. As diet quality decreased from healthy, to moderately-healthy, to unhealthy, prevalence increased from 44.8, 51.1, to 60.9% for OW/O and from 13.4, 18.5, to 28.9% for MetS (p-values < 0.001). Adjusted odds ratios for OW/O and MetS were significantly higher in moderately-healthy (OR = 1.58 and 1.54) and unhealthy (OR = 2.20 and 2.49, respectively) diet groups in comparison to the healthy diet group. This study represents the first report on the relationship between Mediterranean diet and chronic disease risk in Chile. It suggests that the Mediterranean diet may be applied to manage chronic disease risk beyond the Mediterranean basin.

Mechanisms underlying the central regulation of food intake and fat accumulation are not fully understood. We found that neurosecretory protein GL (NPGL), a newly-identified neuropeptide, increased food intake and white adipose tissue (WAT) in rats. NPGL-precursor gene overexpression in the hypothalamus caused increases in food intake, WAT, body mass, and circulating insulin when fed a high calorie diet. Intracerebroventricular administration of NPGL induced de novo lipogenesis in WAT, increased insulin, and it selectively induced carbohydrate intake. Neutralizing antibody administration decreased the size of lipid droplets in WAT. Npgl mRNA expression was upregulated by fasting and low insulin levels. Additionally, NPGL-producing cells were responsive to insulin. These results point to NPGL as a novel neuronal regulator that drives food intake and fat deposition through de novo lipogenesis and acts to maintain steady-state fat level in concert with insulin. Dysregulation of NPGL may be a root cause of obesity.

Tryptophan (Trp) is an amino acid and an essential component of the human diet. It plays a crucial role in many metabolic functions. Clinicians can use Trp levels in the course of diagnosing various metabolic disorders and the symptoms associated with those diseases. Furthermore, supplementation with this amino acid is considered in the treatment of depression and sleep disorders, mainly due to the Trp relationship with the synthesis of serotonin (5-HT) and melatonin. It is also used in helping to resolve cognitive disorders, anxiety, or neurodegenerative diseases. Reduced secretion of serotonin is associated with autism spectrum disorder, obesity, anorexia and bulimia nervosa, and other diseases presenting peripherals symptoms. The literature strongly suggests that Trp has a significant role in the correct functionality of the brain-gut axis and immunology. This information leads to the consideration of Trp as an essential dietary component due to its role in the serotonin pathway. A reduced availability of Trp in diet and nutraceutical supplementation should be considered with greater concern than one might expect. This paper constitutes a review of the more salient aspects gleaned from the current knowledge base about the role of Trp in diseases, associated nutritional disorders, and food science, in general.

Adipose tissue not only has an important role in the storage of excess nutrients but also senses nutrient status and regulates energy mobilization. An overall positive energy balance is associated with overnutrition and leads to excessive accumulation of fat in adipocytes. These cells respond by initiating an inflammatory response that, although maladaptive in the long run, might initially be a physiological response to the stresses obesity places on adipose tissue. In this Review, we characterize adipose tissue inflammation and review the current knowledge of what triggers obesity-associated inflammation in adipose tissue. We examine the connection between adipose tissue inflammation and the development of insulin resistance and catecholamine resistance and discuss the ensuing state of metabolic inflexibility. Finally, we review the current and potential new anti-inflammatory treatments for obesity-associated metabolic disease.

Obesity is a metabolic syndrome leading to several health problems such as hypertension, heart attack, type II diabetes, and even cancer. Carbonic anhydrase VA (CAVA) is a mitochondrial enzyme which is directly associated with the glucose homeostasis and considered as a promising target for obesity and other associated diseases in humans. So far, numerous inhibitors have been designed to inhibit the catalytic activity of CAVA with an assumption for its possible therapeutic uses against type II diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Among these, sulphonamide inhibitors and various non-classical inhibitors are extensively used. The focus of this review is to understand the mechanism and role CAVA in glucose homeostasis to ascertain as a potential drug target of obesity. We have further highlighted different types of inhibitors and their mode of binding and possible consequences with an aim to investigate possible therapeutic used for the treatment of obesity and associated diseases. Along with classical inhibitors, various non-classical inhibitors have proved to be potential inhibitors of CAV which may be employed to combat obesity. Certain phytochemicals are utilized as therapeutic molecules to fight obesity. These phytochemicals have been discussed in detail here.

The awareness of factors causing obesity and associated disorders has grown up in the last years from genome to a more complicated concept (developmental programming) in which prenatal and early-postnatal conditions markedly modify the phenotype and homeostasis of the individuals and determine juvenile growth, life-time fitness/obesity and disease risks. Experimentation in human beings is impeded by ethical issues plus inherent high variability and confounding factors (genetics, lifestyle and socioeconomic heterogeneity) and preclinical studies in adequate translational animal models are therefore decisive. Most of the studies have been performed in rodents, whilst the use of large animals is scarce. Having in mind body-size, handling-easiness and cost-efficiency, the main large animal species for use in biomedical research are rabbits, sheep and swine. The choice of the model depends on the research objectives.

To determine the association between apo B levels in mothers and their pre-school offspring.

The objectives for this study were to examine the associations between metabolic biomarkers of obesity including insulin resistance, vascular dysfunction, systemic inflammation, genetic susceptibility and ultrasound proven gallstone disease or cholecystectomy in a population-based cross-sectional study.

Many different fungi, including yeasts and molds, can be found in the intestinal tract of humans constituting the gut mycobiome. In case the bacterial flora is altered, the fungal flora may react inversely. By a so-called fungal diet, however, the composition of the mycobiome can hardly be influenced. Whereas some fungi are only transiently present in the gut after oral uptake, others, such as Candida, Saccharomyces, Rhodotorula, Trichosporon, Geotrichum, amongst others, are members of the residential, autochthonous gut flora. Some of these fungi exert beneficial effects, for example by synthesizing useful materials. Rhodotorula can produce fatty acids and carotenoids. Others are able to metabolize toxic compounds, for example mycotoxins as well as procarcinogenic items in food. Toxins, as well as pathogenic bacteria, can be bound to mannans on the surface of fungi und can consequently be exported. Some fungi are said to exert probiotic activities. Certain fungal constituents, such as glucans, may even stimulate the immune system. On the other hand, some fungi cannot only colonize the gut asymptomatically but can also be noxious under certain conditions when, for example, the bacterial flora is disturbed. By means of their virulence factors, they can damage the gut epithelium and even penetrate into the Mukosa inducing inflammation, They can also aggravate chronic inflammatory processes. Fungi play a role in the development of obesity. Lastly, fungi in the gut represent a reservoir from which they may spread to other sites when the conditions are favorable.

To investigate correlations between anthropometrics and body composition with bone parameters of the whole-body and lumbar spine in non-obese and obese Thai female adolescents.

Considerable attention has been focused on the effect of deleterious mutations caused by the recent relaxation of selective constraints on human health, including the prevalence of obesity, which might represent an adaptive response of energy-conserving metabolism under the conditions of modern society. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) encoding 13 core subunits of oxidative phosphorylation plays an important role in metabolism. Therefore, we hypothesized that a relaxation of selection constraints on mtDNA and an increase in the proportion of deleterious mutations have played a role in obesity prevalence. In this study, we collected and sequenced the mtDNA genomes of 722 Uyghurs, a typical population with a high prevalence of obesity. We identified the variants that occurred in the Uyghur population for each sample and found that the number of nonsynonymous mutations carried by Uyghur individuals declined with elevation of their BMI (P = 0.015). We further calculated the nonsynonymous and synonymous ratio (N/S) of the high-BMI and low-BMI haplogroups, and the results showed that a significantly higher N/S occurred in the whole mtDNA genomes of the low-BMI haplogroups (0.64) than in that of the high-BMI haplogroups (0.35, P = 0.030) and ancestor haplotypes (0.41, P = 0.032); these findings indicated that low-BMI individuals showed a recent relaxation of selective constraints. In addition, we investigated six clinical characteristics and found that fasting plasma glucose might be correlated with the N/S and selective pressures. We hypothesized that a higher proportion of deleterious mutations led to mild mitochondrial dysfunction, which helps to drive glucose consumption and thereby prevents obesity. Our results provide new insights into the relationship between obesity predisposition and mitochondrial genome evolution.

Bariatric surgery is an effective intervention for the majority of patients with morbid obesity, but a significant minority fails to achieve substantial weight loss. In the search of possible predictors of weight loss following bariatric surgery, preoperative factors turn out to have limited predictive power. This study will examine the impact of two postoperative factors on weight loss: perceived social support and stressful life events.

Despite much interest in the health risks associated with behavioral factors, little is known about whether individuals residing in different countries experience a different set of risks. International comparisons of the death risks from major behavioral factors can shed light on whether features of health systems and epidemiological histories modify the health effects of risky behaviors. We used nationally representative samples and mortality linkages spanning the 1971-2014 period from the United States and Finland to examine cross-national differences in the risks of death from cigarette smoking and obesity. We evaluated both current and former smoking and current and prior obesity. In 1990, the approximate midpoint of our study, the death risks from current smoking were about 55% higher in U.S. women compared to Finnish women, but similar for men in the two countries. Death risks from smoking significantly increased over the period for women in both countries and there was no parallel increase in risks among men. Death risks from obesity did not significantly differ in the two countries and no significant trend in the risks were detected in either country. Reasons for the relatively high and increasing risks from smoking among American women warrant further evaluation.

Postoperative septic complications of hemorrhoids surgical interventions are rare, but very serious with high mortality rate. Early diagnosis and prompt therapy are essential to save patient's life. There are a good number of articles and case reports about these septic complications. We are presenting a case report of a prostatic abscess caused by extended spectrum beta lactamase (ESBL) producing Klebsiella pneumoniae after hemorrhoidopexy. Our patient was a healthy middle aged Saudi male who has no significant medical history apart from morbid obesity and recurrent urinary tract infections. ESBL producing K. pneumoniae could be detected only after aspiration of the prostatic abscess, but proper antibiotic was introduced intravenously on admission before culture of aspirate of the abscess was available. Antibiotic was continued for 30 days and abscess resolved completely. In our electronic search, we could not find any case report of prostatic abscess after stapled hemorrhoidopexy caused by ESBL producing organism. This is an additional challenge for treating physicians as these organisms are sensitive only to one group of antibiotics (carbapenem group).

The universal nature of networks' structural and physical properties across diverse systems offers a better prospect to elucidate the interplay between a system and its environment. In the last decade, several large-scale transcriptome and interactome studies were conducted to understand the complex and dynamic nature of interactions between Arabidopsis and its bacterial pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. We took advantage of these publicly available datasets and performed "-omics"-based integrative, and network topology analyses to decipher the transcriptional and protein-protein interaction activities of effector targets. We demonstrated that effector targets exhibit shorter distance to differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and possess increased information centrality. Intriguingly, effector targets are differentially expressed in a sequential manner and make for 1% of the total DEGs at any time point of infection with virulent or defense-inducing DC3000 strains. We revealed that DC3000 significantly alters the expression levels of 71% effector targets and their downstream physical interacting proteins in Arabidopsis interactome. Our integrative "-omics"--based analyses identified dynamic complexes associated with MTI and disease susceptibility. Finally, we discovered five novel plant defense players using a systems biology-fueled top-to-bottom approach and demonstrated immune-related functions for them, further validating the power and resolution of our network analyses.

Obesity increases the risk of complications during pediatric procedural sedation. The risk of being underweight has not been evaluated in this arena. We therefore investigated the association of BMI with sedation dosing and adverse events in children across a range of BMIs.

Alterations in the inflammatory state, metabolic function, and structure of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) can impact the development of insulin resistance in obesity. Exercise can improve metabolic health in obesity, but the effects of exercise on SAT are not well known. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of acute exercise and habitual exercise training on mRNA expression of markers of lipid metabolism, inflammation, fibrosis, and hypoxia/angiogenesis in SAT, as well as adipocyte cell size. We recruited overweight-to-obese adults who exercised regularly (ACTIVE: n=8) or were sedentary (SED: n=12). The groups were well-matched for age (27±1 vs. 24±2 y), BMI (29±1 vs. 27±1 kg/m(2)), and body composition (30±1 vs 29±1 % body fat), but as expected, cardiorespiratory fitness was greater in ACTIVE vs. SED (VO2peak: 51±3 vs. 42±1 ml/kg FFM/min; p=0.01). Abdominal SAT biopsy samples were obtained before and 1 h after a single session of aerobic exercise (60 min at ~65% VO2peak). The exercise session increased SAT mRNA expression of VEGFA, an important regulator of angiogenic processes, in both groups. In addition, SAT from ACTIVE subjects had greater mRNA expression of the endothelial cell marker CD31 compared with SED, which may be a cumulative effect of the transient increases in VEGFA with regular exercise. We also magnetically sorted CD14+ immune cells from SAT samples and found that IL6 expression was elevated in ACTIVE compared with SED. In conclusion, exercise initiates increases in factors related to angiogenic processes and may promote alterations in macrophage inflammation in SAT.

It has been shown that adipose tissue and skeletal muscles of lean individuals respond to meal-induced hyperinsulinemia by increases in perfusion, the effect not observed in patients with metabolic syndrome. In conditions of hyperglycaemia and hypertriglyceridemia, this insufficient vascularization leads to the liberation of reactive oxygen species, and disruption of nitric oxide synthesis and endothelial signalling responsible for the uptake of circulating fatty acids, whose accumulation in skeletal muscles and adipose tissue is widely associated with impairment of insulin signalling. While the angiogenic role of VEGF-A and its increased circulating concentrations in obesity have been widely confirmed, the data related to the metabolic role of VEGF-B are diverse. However, recent discoveries indicate that this growth factor may be a promising therapeutic agent in patients with metabolic syndrome. Preclinical studies agree over two crucial metabolic effects of VEGF-B: a) regulation of fatty acids uptake and b) regulation of tissue perfusion via activation of VEGF-A/VEGFR2 pathway. While in some preclinical high-fat diet studies VEGF-B overexpression reverted glucose intolerance and stimulated fat burning, in others it furtherly promoted accumulation of lipids and lipotoxicity. Data from clinical studies point out the changes in circulating or tissue expression levels of VEGF-B in obese versus lean patients. Potentially beneficial effects of VEGF-B, achieved through enhanced blood flow (increased availability of insulin and glucose uptake in target organs) and decreased fatty acids uptake (prevention of lipotoxicity and improved insulin signalling), and its safety for clinical use, remain to be clarified through future translational research.

Obesity is an independent risk factor for stroke, though several clinical studies have reported that obesity improves stroke outcome. Obesity is hypothesised to aid recovery by protecting against post-stroke catabolism. We therefore assessed whether obese mice had an altered metabolic and inflammatory response to stroke. Obese ob/ob mice underwent 20 min middle cerebral artery occlusion and 24 h reperfusion. Lipid metabolism and expression of inflammatory cytokines were assessed in the plasma, liver and adipose tissue. The obese-specific metabolic response to stroke was assessed in plasma using non-targeted UPLC-MS metabolomics coupled with univariate and multivariate analysis. Obesity had no effect on the extent of weight loss 24 h after stroke but affected the metabolic and inflammatory responses to stroke, predominantly affecting lipid metabolism. Specifically, obese mice had increases in plasma free fatty acids and expression of adipose lipolytic enzymes. Metabolomics identified several classes of metabolites affected by stroke in obese mice, including fatty acids and membrane lipids (glycerophospholipids, lysophospholipids and sphingolipids). Obesity also featured increases in inflammatory cytokines in the plasma and adipose tissue. Overall these results demonstrate that obesity affected the acute metabolic and inflammatory response to stroke and suggest a potential role for adipose tissue in this effect. These findings could have implications for longer-term recovery and also further highlight the importance of considering comorbidities in preclinical stroke research, especially when identifying biomarkers for stroke. However, further work is required to assess whether these changes translate into long-term effects on recovery.

We aimed to analyze the efficiency of a novel treatment approach, long-term synbiotic supplementation, in addition to lifestyle changes in children with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).

Some have observed that developed world is fat and getting fatter. This is even extending into the developing world, and it is important to appreciate that the consequences of childhood obesity last into adulthood and are associated with premature death. From the paediatric respiratory perspective, the deposition of excess adipose tissue in the thoraco-abdominal region begins early in life and is believed to alter diaphragm mobility and chest wall expansion, reduce lung compliance, and result in a rapid shallow breathing pattern with an increased work of breathing and reduction in maximum ventilatory capacity. This results in respiratory symptoms of exertional dyspnoea related to deconditioning which may present as exercise limitation, leading to confusion with common lung diseases such as asthma. The manifestations of the increasingly prevalent problems of overweight and obesity in young people and their interaction with common conditions of asthma and obstructive sleep apnoea will be discussed.

To conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial comparing the Brazilian version of the New Moves program (NMP) versus observation among Brazilian adolescent girls.

Obesity has been strongly linked to endometrial cancer (EC) risk. A number of potential EC risk biomarkers have been proposed, including heightened pro-inflammatory cytokines and adipokines. To evaluate if bariatric surgery can serve as a means for altering levels of such EC risk biomarkers, we investigated changes in these biomarkers after weight loss.

To report surgical and functional outcomes of buried penis surgery.

Little is known on the magnitude and correlates of insulin resistance in HIV-infected people in Africa. We determined the prevalence of insulin resistance and investigated associated factors in HIV-infected adult Cameroonians.

The risk of psoriasis in patients with breast cancer is largely unknown, as available evidence is limited to case findings. We systematically examined the incidence and risk factors of psoriasis in patients with breast cancer.

Though Illumina has largely dominated the RNA-Seq field, the simultaneous availability of Ion Torrent has left scientists wondering which platform is most effective for differential gene expression (DGE) analysis. Previous investigations of this question have typically used reference samples derived from cell lines and brain tissue, and do not involve biological variability. While these comparisons might inform studies of tissue-specific expression, marked by large-scale transcriptional differences, this is not the common use case.

Close food proximity leads to increased short-term energy intake, potentially contributing to the long-term development of obesity. However, its precise effects on eating behaviour are still unclear, especially with food available for extended periods of time. This study involved two similar high school student groups (15-17 years old), which had ad libitum access to grapes, chocolates and crackers during an hour-long experimental session. In the distal condition the foods were placed 6 meters away from the students (n = 24), in contrast to the proximal condition (n = 17) were the food was placed near the students. The identification of the type and the quantification of the amount of each food selected, for each individual serving, was facilitated through use of food scales and video recording. In the proximal condition individuals served themselves grapes and crackers more often and consumed more chocolate than in the distal condition. In total, participants in the proximal condition ingested significantly more energy (726 kcal vs. 504 kcal; p = 0.029), without reporting higher fullness. Food proximity also affected the temporal distribution of servings, with the first five minutes of the sessions corresponding to 53.1% and 45.6% of the total energy intake for the distal and proximal conditions, respectively. After the first five minutes, the servings in the distal condition were strongly clustered in time, with many students getting food together. In the proximal condition however, students displayed an unstructured pattern of servings over time. In conclusion, this study strengthens past evidence regarding the important role of food proximity on individual energy intake and, for the first time, it associates continuous food proximity to the emergence of unstructured eating over time. These conclusions, expanded upon by future studies, could support the creation of meaningful intervention strategies based on spatially and temporally controlled food availability.

The association between hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) and some diseases is becoming relevant in recent years. Providing appropriate management of HS from an early stage requires to include prompt diagnosis and treatment of concomitant diseases and to prevent any potential comorbidity. This approach should consider the adverse events of the drugs used to treat HS potentially related to the onset of a comorbidity.

The prevalence of obesity has been increasing in recent decades and is reaching epidemic proportions. The current options for overweight and obesity management are energy restriction and physical activity. However, compliance with these treatments is frequently poor and less successful than expected. Therefore, the scientific community is interested in active biomolecules, which may be useful in body weight management. Among them, resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) has generated great interest as an antiobesity agent. The focus of this report is the mechanisms of action of resveratrol on several tissues (i.e., white and brown adipose tissues, liver, and skeletal muscle). Resveratrol blunts fat accumulation through decreasing adipogenesis and/or de novo lipogenesis in white adipose tissue. The effects on lipolysis are controversial. Regarding brown adipose tissue, resveratrol increases the capacity for adaptive thermogenesis. As far as liver and skeletal muscle is concerned, resveratrol increases lipid oxidation in both tissues. Therefore, in rodents, there is a general consensus concerning the effect of resveratrol on reducing body fat accumulation. By contrast, in humans, the studies are scarce, and no clear antiobesity action has been revealed so far.

Surgical resection is the primary treatment for colon cancer, but use of laparoscopic approaches varies widely despite demonstrated short- and long-term benefits.

The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence and factors associated with hormone therapy (HT) use among Canadian women.

Chronic diseases constitute a major public health challenge. The prevalence of multiple chronic conditions (MCC) has increased. The objective of our study was to describe the prevalence, correlates, and time trends of MCC in the Israeli population and among the nation's 2 main population groups (Jewish and Arab).

While migraine and obesity are related and associated with reduced executive functioning, no study has examined whether obesity exacerbates executive dysfunction in migraine. This cross-sectional study examined whether overweight/obesity moderated associations of migraine severity and associated features with inhibitory control, one aspect of executive function.

Leptin is a peptide hormone mainly produced in white adipose tissue. It is known to regulate energy homeostasis, inflammation, metabolism, and sympathetic nerve activity. Increasing evidence suggests it has a role in ventilatory function and upper airway obstruction. Leptin levels correlate positively with measurements of adiposity and can potentially provide important insights into the pathophysiology of diseases associated with obesity. Obesity is a strong risk factor for obstructive sleep apnea, a disease characterized by periodic upper airway occlusion during sleep. The neuromuscular activity that maintains upper airway patency during sleep and the anatomy of upper airway are key factors involved in its pathogenesis. Experimental studies using animal models of a low leptin state such as leptin deficiency have shown that leptin regulates sleep architecture, upper airway patency, ventilatory function, and hypercapnic ventilatory response. However, findings from human studies do not consistently support the data from the animal models. The effect of leptin on the pathophysiology of obstructive sleep apnea is being investigated, but the results of studies have been confounded by its diurnal variation and the short-term effects of feeding, adiposity, age, and gender. Improved study design and methods of assessing functional leptin levels, specifically its central versus peripheral effects, will improve our understanding of the role of leptin in sleep apnea.

Obesity is associated with inflammation, but the role of lean mass and creatine kinase (CK) on the inflammatory process is less known. We investigated the associations between lean mass, CK and fat mass upon inflammatory parameters in an overweight and obese adult population.

Contents I. II. III. IV. V. VI. References SUMMARY: Plants make substantial contributions to our health through our diets, providing macronutrients for energy and growth as well as essential vitamins and phytonutrients that protect us from chronic diseases. Imbalances in our food can lead to deficiency diseases or obesity and associated metabolic disorders, increased risk of cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Nutritional security is now a global challenge which can be addressed, at least in part, through plant metabolic engineering for nutritional improvement of foods that are accessible to and eaten by many. We review the progress that has been made in nutritional enhancement of foods, both improvements through breeding and through biotechnology and the engineering principles on which increased phytonutrient levels are based. We also consider the evidence, where available, that such foods do enhance health and protect against chronic diseases.

Adipose tissue expansion in obesity leads to changes in the expression of adipokines, adipocyte-specific hormones that can regulate whole body energy metabolism. Epigenetic regulation of gene expression is a mechanism by which cells can alter gene expression through the modifications of DNA and histones. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone modifications, are intimately tied to energy metabolism due to their dependence on metabolic intermediates such as S-adenosylmethionine and acetyl-CoA. Altered expression of adipokines in obesity may be due to epigenetic changes. The goal of this review is to highlight current knowledge of epigenetic regulation of adipokines.

Several studies reported that cancer is less frequent in persons with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases (AD/PD) and vice-versa. We evaluated whether a different distribution of known nongenetic risk factors for cancer and AD/PD, might explain their inverse relationship of occurrence. We nested 2 case-control studies in a subsample of a large cohort of 1,000,000 resident in Lombardy Region in Italy (n=1515), followed-up for cancer and AD/PD occurrence since 1991 until 2012. Conditional logistic regression was performed to determine the odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of AD/PD in subjects with and without cancer and the risk of cancer in those with and without AD/PD. A total of 54 incident cases of AD/PD and 347 cancer cases were matched with 216 and 667 controls, respectively. After controlling for low education, obesity, history of hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, physical activity, smoking habit, alcohol consumption, and dietary habit, cancer was found inversely associated with the risk of AD/PD (OR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.32-1.38), and the risk of cancer in AD/PD was similarly reduced (OR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.91). Different exposures to nongenetic risk factors of both diseases do not explain their competitive relationship of occurrence.

Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for morbid obesity. However, 20-30% of patients undergoing bariatric surgery experience premature weight stabilization or weight regain postoperatively. We report on the recent literature of predictors of weight loss and the efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) in bariatric patients.

To highlight recent research findings on effects of the short-chain fatty acid acetate in the control of body weight, insulin sensitivity, and glucose homeostasis. For this purpose, relevant animal and human in-vivo studies were reviewed and putative mechanisms and pathways were discussed.

Postoperative delayed wound healing, surgical site infections (SSIs), and other wound complications are associated with increased morbidity and health-care costs. In cardiothoracic surgery, wound complications can have life-threatening consequences. In recent years, negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) has been applied over closed surgical incisions to help reduce tension and protect from external contamination. We report our initial experiences using a closed incision negative pressure therapy (ciNPT) over clean, closed sternotomy incisions at an Irish tertiary referral centre.

To evaluate the positive predictive value of claims-based V85 codes for identifying individuals with varying degrees of BMI relative to their measured BMI obtained from medical record abstraction.

The aim of this meta-analysis was to examine differences and predictors of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) compared with non-PCOS controls matched for body mass index.

The aim of this study was to investigate the risk factors of hypertension in middle-aged people within the Tujia-Nationality settlement in China. Demographics questionnaires and fitness tests were performed to identify the risk factors of hypertension in middle-aged people in the years 2005, 2010 and 2014 in the area of southwest Hubei of China. Of the 2428 participants, 568 were classified as hypertensive, giving an overall occurrence of hypertension at 23.4%, and the prevalence of hypertension was the highest in the year 2014 (34.9%). Furthermore, Tujia minority had a significantly higher risk for having hypertension (odds ratio=1.055 with 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.039-1.072; P=0.001) than Han people. Individuals with the lowest level of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) had a 2.483-fold risk for hypertension (95% CI, 1.530-4.031; P=0.001). Obesity and overweight individuals increased the risk by 3.470-fold and 2.124-fold, respectively, for having hypertension compared to normal weight people. Finally, white-collar workers had a 58.1 and 31.8% higher risk for hypertension than blue-collar workers in rural and urban areas, respectively. These results demonstrated that the prevalence of hypertension was higher between 2011 and 2014 in the area. The main risk factors for developing hypertension were found to be sex (as woman), Tujia minority, white-collar workers, overweight-obese, those with a middle school education, and those with the lowest CRF.Journal of Human Hypertension advance online publication, 10 August 2017; doi:10.1038/jhh.2017.58.

Critical feminist approaches to eating disorders and "obesity" have recently come under criticism for relying too heavily on textual- and image-based analyses of health, identity and body weight, shape, and size. In this article, we examine qualitative interviews with self-identified anorexic and "obese" women using a new material feminist lens-particularly the work of Karen Barad-to see what this perspective contributes to conceptualizations of weight-based oppressions. In addition to outlining how the material world actively participates in ongoing processes of oppression, we also highlight how the body presses back, offering up potentially less oppressive processes of materialization. The article concludes on a cautiously optimistic note, pointing to how a new materialist framework may draw attention to micropolitical processes of becoming otherwise.

Obesity is defined as an excess body fat that impairs health and is associated with increased risk of heart failure (HF), particularly HF with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), evolving into a 'HFpEF obesity phenotype'. The interplay between obesity and cardiorespiratory fitness, primary clinical parameters in HF, requires further exploration. The contribution of body composition compartments in the development and progress of HF has been the object of numerous studies. Here we focus on how fat mass and lean tissues affect cardiorespiratory fitness, with emphasis on their effects on peak oxygen consumption. Moreover, while several studies have focused on characterization of body composition compartments, here we describe also recent findings related to abnormal and/or dysfunctional lean mass, especially in HFpEF.

Growth models used for describing the dynamics of body weight and height generally consider each trait independently. We proposed modeling height and weight trajectories jointly with a nonlinear heteroscedastic mixed model based on the Jenss-Bayley growth function with correlated individual random effects and using Bayesian inference techniques. Simulations showed that our model provides good estimates of the growth parameters. We illustrated how it can be used to assess the associations between maternal smoking during pregnancy, an early-life factor potentially involved in prenatal programming of obesity, and children's growth from birth to 5 years of age. We used real data from the EDEN study, a large French mother-child cohort study with a high number of height and weight measurements (a total of approximately 30 000 measurements for each of the 2 traits across the 1666 children). Our results supported the existence of a relationship between maternal smoking during pregnancy and growth from birth to 5 years of age. Children from mothers who smoked throughout pregnancy were shown to display a higher body mass index from the first few months of life onwards compared to children from nonsmokers. At 5 years of age, their mean body mass index was 0.21 kg/m(2) higher than unexposed children. It was mainly explained by the fact that these children tended to be smaller at birth but rapidly exceeded the weight of children from nonsmokers postnatally.

Glucolipid metabolic disease (GLMD), a complex of interrelated disorders in glucose and lipid metabolism, has become one of the leading chronic diseases causing public and clinical problem worldwide. As the metabolism of lipid and glucose is a highly coordinated process under both physiological and diseased conditions, the impairment in the signals corresponding to the metabolism of either lipid or glucose represents the common mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of GLMD. The liver and adipose tissue are the major metabolic organs responsible for energy utilization and storage, respectively. This review article aims to summarize the current advances in the investigation of the functional roles and the underling mechanisms of the interplay between the liver and adipose tissue in the modulation of GLMD development. Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) and adiponectin represent the two major hormones secreted from the liver and adipose tissues, respectively. FGF21 exerts pleiotropic effects on regulating glucose and lipid homeostasis majorly through inducing the expression and secretion of adiponectin. Therefore, FGF21-adiponectin axis functions as the key mediator for the crosstalk between the liver and adipose tissue to exert the beneficial effects on the maintenance of the homeostasis of energy consumption. The liver- and adipose tissue-derived factors with pleiotropic effects on regulating of lipid and glucose metabolism function as the key mediator for the crosstalk between these two highly active metabolic organs, thereby coordinating the initiation and development of GLMD.

Bariatric surgery has become an increasingly popular method for weight loss and mitigation of co-morbidities in the obese population. Like any field, there is a desire to standardize and accelerate the postoperative period while maintaining safe outcomes.

The incidence of obesity with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is increasing in Japan. The main bariatric surgery procedures in Japan are laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) and LSG with duodenal-jejunal bypass (LSG/DJB) because of the high incidence of gastric cancer and difficulty exploring a remnant stomach after gastric bypass. However, few studies have compared the antidiabetic effect of LSG/DJB with LSG alone.

The field of the biology of ageing has received increasing attention from a biomedical point of view over the past decades. The main reason has been the realisation that increases in human population life expectancy are accompanied by late onset diseases. Indeed, ageing is the most important risk factor for a number of neoplastic, neurodegenerative and metabolic pathologies. Advances in the knowledge of the genetics of ageing, mainly through research in model organisms, have implicated various cellular processes and the respective signalling pathways that regulate them in cellular and organismal ageing. Associated with ageing is a dysregulation of metabolic homeostasis usually manifested as age-related obesity, diminished insulin sensitivity and impaired glucose and lipid homeostasis. Metabolic deterioration contributes to the ageing phenotype and metabolic pathologies are thought to be one of the main factors limiting the potential for lifespan extension. Great efforts have been directed towards identifying pharmacological interventions with the potential to improve healthspan and a number of natural and synthetic compounds have shown promise in achieving beneficial metabolic effects.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2017.e00347.].

Fungal and bacterial infections are often which may cause sepsis. Mucormycosis is an unfrequent, but often life-threatening disease. A timely diagnosis and treatment is the cornerstone of success. An increase in incidence can be expected, given an aging population and increasing incidence of obesity, diabetes and cancer. We present a rare case where early diagnosis has helped to treat the patient mainly with antifungal therapy as surgical therapy has had high risk of complications.

Metabolic syndrome (MetSyn) represents a clustering of different metabolic abnormalities. MetSyn prevalence is present in approximately 25% of all adults with increased prevalence in advanced ages. The presence of one component of MetSyn increases the risk of developing MetSyn later in life and likely represents a high lifetime burden of cardiovascular disease risk. Therefore we pooled data from multiple studies to establish the prevalence of MetSyn and MetSyn component prevalence across a broad range of ethnicities. PubMed, SCOPUS and Medline databases were searched to find papers presenting MetSyn and MetSyn component data for 18-30 year olds who were apparently healthy, free of disease, and MetSyn was assessed using either the harmonized, National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATPIII), American Heart Association/National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute (AHA/NHBLI), or International Diabetes Federation (IDF) definitions of MetSyn. After reviewing returned articles, 26,609 participants' data from 34 studies were included in the analysis and the data were pooled. MetSyn was present in 4.8-7% of young adults. Atherogenic dyslipidaemia defined as low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was the most prevalent MetSyn component (26.9-41.2%), followed by elevated blood pressure (16.6-26.6%), abdominal obesity (6.8-23.6%), atherogenic dyslipidaemia defined as raised triglycerides (8.6-15.6%), and raised fasting glucose (2.8-15.4%). These findings highlight that MetSyn is prevalent in young adults. Establishing the reason why low HDL is the most prevalent component may represent an important step in promoting primary prevention of MetSyn and reducing the incidence of subsequent clinical disease.

Obstructive sleep apnoea and obese hypoventilation is not uncommon in patients with obesity. Residuals effect from surgery/anaesthesia and opioid analgesics may worsen respiration during the first nights after bariatric surgery. The aim of this observational study was to monitor respiration on the first postoperative night following elective bariatric surgery.

It is estimated that 29.1 million people or 9.3% of the US population have diabetes, which contributes to considerable medical and financial burden. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin resistance and insulin secretion impairment leading to hyperglycemia. The presence of insulin resistance is strongly correlated with obesity.

In contrast to adults where hypertension is a leading cause of chronic kidney disease, in pediatrics, hypertension is predominantly a sequela, however, an important one that, like in adults, is likely associated with a more rapid decline in kidney function or progression of chronic kidney disease to end stage. There is a significant issue with unrecognized, or masked, hypertension in childhood chronic kidney disease. Recent evidence and, therefore, guidelines now suggest targeting a blood pressure of <50th percentile for age, sex, and height in children with proteinuria and chronic kidney disease. This often cannot be achieved by monotherapy and additional agents need to be added. Blockade of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system represents the mainstay of therapy, although often limited by the side effect of hyperkalemia. The addition of a diuretic, at least in the earlier stages of chronic kidney disease, might help mitigate this problem.

Low intensity exercise during pregnancy and lactation may create a protective effect against the development of obesity in offspring exposed to overnutrition in early life. To test these hypotheses, pregnant rats were randomly assigned into 2 groups: Sedentary and Exercised, low intensity, on a rodent treadmill at 30% VO2Max /30-minute/session/3x/week throughout pregnancy and the lactation. Male offspring were raised in small litters (SL, 3 pups/dam) and normal litters (NL, 9 pups/dam) as models of early overnutrition and normal feed, respectively. Exercised mothers showed low mesenteric fat pad stores and fasting glucose and improved glucose-insulin tolerance, VO2max during lactation and sympathetic activity. Moreover, the breast milk contained elevated levels of insulin. In addition, SL of sedentary mothers presented metabolic dysfunction and glucose and insulin intolerance and were hyperglycemic and hyperinsulinemic in adulthood. SL of exercised mothers showed lower fat tissue accretion and improvements in glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, insulinemia and glycemia. The results suggest that maternal exercise during the perinatal period can have a possible reprogramming effect to prevent metabolic dysfunction in adult rat offspring exposed to early overnutrition, which may be associated with the improvement in maternal health caused by exercise.

During obesity, macrophages can infiltrate metabolic tissues, and contribute to chronic low-grade inflammation, and mediate insulin resistance and diabetes. Recent studies have elucidated the metabolic role of JAK2, a key mediator downstream of various cytokines and growth factors. Our study addresses the essential role of macrophage JAK2 in the pathogenesis to obesity-associated inflammation and insulin resistance. During high-fat diet (HFD) feeding, macrophage-specific JAK2 knockout (M-JAK2(-/-)) mice gained less body weight compared to wildtype littermate control (M-JAK2(+/+)) mice and were protected from HFD-induced systemic insulin resistance. Histological analysis revealed smaller adipocytes and qPCR analysis showed upregulated expression of some adipogenesis markers in visceral adipose tissue (VAT) of HFD-fed M-JAK2(-/-) mice. There were decreased crown-like structures in VAT along with reduced mRNA expression of some macrophage markers and chemokines in liver and VAT of HFD-fed M-JAK2(-/-) mice. Peritoneal macrophages from M-JAK2(-/-) mice and Jak2 knockdown in macrophage cell line RAW 264.7 also showed lower levels of chemokine expression and reduced phosphorylated STAT3. However, leptin-dependent effects on augmenting chemokine expression in RAW 264.7 cells did not require JAK2. Collectively, our findings show that macrophage JAK2 deficiency improves systemic insulin sensitivity and reduces inflammation in VAT and liver in response to metabolic stress.

Obesity is a serious medical condition highly associated with health problems such as diabetes, hypertension, and stroke. Obesity is highly associated with negative emotional states, but the relationship between obesity and emotional states in terms of neuroimaging has not been fully explored. We obtained 196 emotion task functional magnetic resonance imaging (t-fMRI) from the Human Connectome Project database using a sampling scheme similar to a bootstrapping approach. Brain regions were specified by automated anatomical labeling atlas and the brain activity (z-statistics) of each brain region was correlated with body mass index (BMI) values. Regions with significant correlation were identified and the brain activity of the identified regions was correlated with emotion-related clinical scores. Hippocampus, amygdala, and inferior temporal gyrus consistently showed significant correlation between brain activity and BMI and only the brain activity in amygdala consistently showed significant negative correlation with fear-affect score. The brain activity in amygdala derived from t-fMRI might be good neuroimaging biomarker for explaining the relationship between obesity and a negative emotional state.

Objective In Japan, metabolic syndrome (MetS) and preliminary metabolic syndrome (preMetS) are more prevalent in men; however, it remains unclear whether the relationship between these metabolic disorders and lifestyle factors is similar between genders. Methods We examined waist circumference, blood pressure, fasting blood, and various lifestyle factors in 3,166 individuals aged from 30-79 years of age from the Japanese general population. MetS was diagnosed on the basis of central obesity - assessed by waist circumference - plus two or more of the following cardio-metabolic risks according to Japanese criteria: high blood pressure, hyperglycemia, and lipid abnormality. Central obesity plus one of the risks was defined as preMetS. Results Men had a significantly higher prevalence of MetS (23.3% vs. 8.7%, p<0.001) and preMetS (21.2% vs. 10.2%, p<0.001) than women. An age-adjusted logistic regression analysis revealed that heavy drinkers were associated with an increased probability of MetS (odds ratio, 1.91: 95% confidence interval, 1.29-2.83) and preMetS (1.69: 1.11-2.58); fast eaters were also related to preMetS (1.83: 1.33-2.55) and MetS (1.55: 1.12-2.15) in men. Lacking regular exercise was significantly associated with preMetS (1.38: 1.03-1.85), but not MetS. In women, preMetS was significantly associated with fast eaters and lacking regular exercise (1.44: 1.01-2.07 and 1.41: 1.02-1.96, respectively); a stepwise increase in each odds ratio (2.02: 1.40-2.91 and 1.47: 1.03-2.09, respectively) was also observed for MetS. Conclusion The relationships between lifestyle factors and MetS or preMetS differed between men and women, which suggests the need for gender-specific lifestyle modification to effectively prevent MetS.

Prenatal overnutrition affects development into adulthood and influences risk of obesity. We assessed the transgenerational effect of maternal Western diet (WD) consumption on offspring physical activity. Voluntary wheel running was increased in juvenile (4-7 wk of age), but decreased in adult (16-19 wk of age), F1 female WD offspring In contrast, no wheel-running differences in F1 male offspring were observed. Increased wheel running in juvenile female WD offspring was associated with up-regulated dopamine receptor (DRD)-1 and -2 in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and with down-regulated Lepr in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Conversely, decreased wheel running by adult female WD offspring was associated with down-regulated DRD1 in the NAc and with up-regulated Lepr in the VTA. Body fat, leptin, and insulin were increased in male, but not in female, F1 WD offspring. Recombinant virus (rAAV) leptin antagonism in the VTA decreased wheel running in standard diet but not in WD F1 female offspring. Analysis of F2 offspring found no differences in wheel running or adiposity in male or female offspring, suggesting that changes in the F1 generation were related to in utero somatic reprogramming. Our findings indicate prenatal WD exposure leads to age-specific changes in voluntary physical activity in female offspring that are differentially influenced by VTA leptin antagonism.-Ruegsegger, G. N., Grigsby, K. B., Kelty, T. J., Zidon, T. M., Childs, T. E., Vieira-Potter, V. J., Klinkebiel, D. L., Matheny, M., Scarpace, P. J., Booth, F. W. Maternal Western diet age-specifically alters female offspring voluntary physical activity and dopamine- and leptin-related gene expression.

Bariatric surgery is the most effective intervention for weight loss and obesity-related comorbidities currently available. Little is known about adolescents entering National Health Service (NHS) bariatric programmes. We aimed to characterise those entering a pathway and report their outcomes.

Occupation is often used as an indicator of socioeconomic position (SEP) in epidemiological studies, although it is unclear whether variation in SEP within a single occupational group is associated with health outcomes, including adiposity measures.

To describe health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and psychological well-being of children and adolescents at enrolment in a multidisciplinary community-based obesity programme and to determine association with ethnicity. This programme targeted indigenous people and those from most deprived households. Further, this cohort was compared with other populations/normative data.

Background: A low-calorie diet (LCD) reduces fat mass excess, improves insulin sensitivity, and alters adipose tissue (AT) gene expression, yet the relation with clinical outcomes remains unclear.Objective: We evaluated AT transcriptome alterations during an LCD and the association with weight and glycemic outcomes both at LCD termination and 6 mo after the LCD.Design: Using RNA sequencing (RNAseq), we analyzed transcriptome changes in AT from 191 obese, nondiabetic patients within a multicenter, controlled dietary intervention. Expression changes were associated with outcomes after an 8-wk LCD (800-1000 kcal/d) and 6 mo after the LCD. Results were validated by using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in 350 subjects from the same cohort. Statistical models were constructed to classify weight maintainers or glycemic improvers.Results: With RNAseq analyses, we identified 1173 genes that were differentially expressed after the LCD, of which 350 and 33 were associated with changes in body mass index (BMI; in kg/m(2)) and Matsuda index values, respectively, whereas 29 genes were associated with both endpoints. Pathway analyses highlighted enrichment in lipid and glucose metabolism. Classification models were constructed to identify weight maintainers. A model based on clinical baseline variables could not achieve any classification (validation AUC: 0.50; 95% CI: 0.36, 0.64). However, clinical changes during the LCD yielded better performance of the model (AUC: 0.73; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.87]). Adding baseline expression to this model improved the performance significantly (AUC: 0.87; 95% CI: 0.77, 0.96; Delong's P = 0.012). Similar analyses were performed to classify subjects with good glycemic improvements. Baseline- and LCD-based clinical models yielded similar performance (best AUC: 0.73; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.86). The addition of expression changes during the LCD improved the performance substantially (AUC: 0.80; 95% CI: 0.69, 0.92; P = 0.058).Conclusions: This study investigated AT transcriptome alterations after an LCD in a large cohort of obese, nondiabetic patients. Gene expression combined with clinical variables enabled us to distinguish weight and glycemic responders from nonresponders. These potential biomarkers may help clinicians understand intersubject variability and better predict the success of dietary interventions. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00390637.

Background: Parental restrictive feeding (i.e., limiting food intake of children) has been linked to childhood overweight. However, the directionality of the causal pathway remains unknown.Objective: The objectives of this study were to examine the bidirectional association of maternal restrictive feeding with children's weight and body composition across childhood and to explore a possible mediating role of maternal concern about child weight.Design: Data were available for 4689 mother-child dyads participating in Generation R, a prospective birth cohort in the Netherlands. At ages 4 and 10 y, restrictive feeding was assessed with the parent-reported Child Feeding Questionnaire, and children's body mass index (BMI) was measured. At age 6 y, fat mass index (FMI) and fat-free mass index (FFMI) were measured with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Both directions of the relation between restriction and child body composition were examined with multivariable linear regression analyses and cross-lagged modeling. Mediation analyses were performed to examine concern about child weight (mother reported at child age of 10 y) as a potential mediator.Results: Higher child sex- and age-adjusted BMI SD scores (zBMI) at age 4 y predicted more restrictive feeding at age 10 y (B = 0.15; 95% CI: 0.11, 0.18). Both sex- and age-adjusted FMI SD scores (zFMI) and sex-and age-adjusted FFMI SD scores (zFFMI) at 6 y were also positively associated with restrictive feeding at 10 y. Maternal concern about child weight partially mediated these associations from child body composition to restrictive feeding (e.g., for zBMI at 4 y: Bindirect = 0.10; 95% CI: 0.07, 0.13). There was no temporal association from restrictive feeding at age 4 y to child zBMI at age 10 y after adjustment for baseline zBMI.Conclusions: The continued use of restrictive feeding practices at age 10 y appeared to be primarily a response of mothers to an unhealthy weight of their child rather than a cause of children's overweight. Guidelines discouraging restrictive feeding for preventing childhood overweight should therefore be reconsidered.

Adolescent obesity is a global epidemic. Motivational interviewing (MI) is a promising strategy to address adolescent obesity risk behaviors. However, primary care providers (PCPs) tend to express discomfort with learning and adopting MI practices and with addressing patient weight issues. PCP proficiency in using MI to discuss body mass index, health screening results, and nutrition and physical activity behaviors after receiving training and coaching from an MI expert and practicing the technique was evaluated. We hypothesized that comfort with MI would increase consistently over time.

The global pandemic of obesity has led to an increased risk for prediabetes and type-2 diabetes (T2D). The aims of the current project are: (1) to evaluate the effect of a 22-week family based intervention program, including supervised exercise, on insulin resistance syndrome (IRS) risk in children with a high risk of developing T2D and (2) to identify the profile of microRNA in circulating exosomes and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in children with a high risk of developing T2D and its response to a multidisciplinary intervention program including exercise.

A single bout of exercise induces changes in gene expression in skeletal muscle. Regular exercise results in an adaptive response involving changes in muscle architecture and biochemistry, and is an effective way to manage and prevent common human diseases such as obesity, cardiovascular disorders and type II diabetes. However, the biomolecular mechanisms underlying such responses still need to be fully elucidated. Here we performed a transcriptome-wide analysis of skeletal muscle tissue in a large cohort of untrained Thoroughbred horses (n = 51) before and after a bout of high-intensity exercise and again after an extended period of training. We hypothesized that regular high-intensity exercise training primes the transcriptome for the demands of high-intensity exercise.

180 Airforce personnel selected by stratified random sampling technique were studied for coronary risk factors. Nearly 27% individuals had one, 21% had two and 15% had multiple risks. Tobacco smoking was found to be the commonest risk factor (54%) followed by physical inactivity (45%), hyper-cholesterolaemia (22.2%), obesity (20%), hypertension (15%) and positive family history (12.2%). The prevalence of smoking, physical inactivity, excessive intake of dietary cholesterol and serum cholesterol values were seen significantly rising with age. The mean cholesterol values in the age group of 30-39, 40 years and above were higher than the WHO recommended values. The findings of the study suggest a greater emphasis on health education of airmen on coronary heart disease and its positive association with certain risk factors.

204 healthy family members of 91 known diabetics were screened for abnormal carbohydrate tolerance (ACT). The prevalence of asymptomatic diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance were found to be 3.44% and 8.33% respectively. There was positive correlation in the prevalence of ACT and age of the family members. Male children of diabetic parents were at higher risk of inheriting the disease. The risk increased when compounded with obesity and mumps infection. Suitable preventive strategies have been highlighted.

Commensal as well as pathogenic bacteria can influence a variety of gut functions, thereby leading to constipation and diarrhea in severe cases. In fact, several researchers have reported evidence supporting the association between stool consistency or constipation and the Gut microbiome (GM) composition and dysbiosis. GM influences the human health and disease via the gut-brain axis. We thus hypothesized that the pathogenic bacteria increases pain perception to some extent, which means that there could be an association between stool consistency or constipation and pain perception of healthy subjects.

To examine whether obesity confers a protective effect on critically ill pediatric patients, similar to what has been reported in critically ill adults.

The prevalence and characteristics of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) have changed over time, reflecting the nutritional transition and changes in diagnostic criteria. We aimed to evaluate characteristics of women with GDM over a 20-year interval.

Clobenzorex is a metabolic precursor of amphetamine indicated for the treatment of obesity. Amphetamines have been involved with cardiovascular side effects such as hypertension and pulmonary arterial hypertension. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the direct application of 10-9-10-5 M clobenzorex on isolated phenylephrine-precontracted rat aortic rings produces vascular effects, and if so, what mechanisms may be involved. Clobenzorex produced an immediate concentration-dependent vasorelaxant effect at the higher concentrations (10-7.5-10-5 M). The present outcome was not modified by 10-6 M atropine (an antagonist of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors), 3.1×10-7 M glibenclamide (an ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker), 10-3 M 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; a voltage-activated K+ channel blocker), 10-5 M indomethacin (a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor), 10-5 M clotrimazole (a cytochrome P450 inhibitor) or 10-5 M cycloheximide (a general protein synthesis inhibitor). Contrarily, the clobenzorex-induced vasorelaxation was significantly attenuated (P<0.05) by 10-5 M L-NAME (a direct inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase), 10-7 M ODQ (an inhibitor of nitric oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase), 10-6 M KT 5823 (an inhibitor of protein kinase G), 10-2 M TEA (a Ca2+-activated K+ channel blocker and non-specific voltage-activated K+ channel blocker) and 10-7 M apamin plus 10-7 M charybdotoxin (blockers of small- and large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels, respectively), and was blocked by 8×10-2 M potassium (a high concentration) and removal of the vascular endothelium. These results suggest that the direct vasorelaxant effect by clobenzorex on phenylephrine-precontracted rat aortic rings involved stimulation of the NO/cGMP/PKG/Ca2+-activated K+ channel pathway.

High-intensity interval training (HIIT) has been shown to improve cardiometabolic health during supervised lab-based studies but adherence, enjoyment, and health benefits of HIIT performed independently are yet to be understood. We compared adherence, enjoyment, and cardiometabolic outcomes after 8 weeks of HIIT or moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT), matched for energy expenditure, in overweight and obese young adults.

Over the past 2 decades, the incidence of childhood obesity has risen dramatically. This recent rise in childhood obesity is particularly concerning as adults who were obese during childhood develop type II diabetes that is intractable to current forms of treatment compared with individuals who develop obesity in adulthood. While the mechanisms responsible for the exacerbated diabetic phenotype associated with childhood obesity is not clear, it is well known that childhood is an important time period for the establishment of normal white adipose tissue in humans. This association suggests that exposure to obesogenic stimuli during adipose development may have detrimental effects on adipose function and metabolic homeostasis. In this study, we identify the period of development associated with puberty, postnatal days 18-34, as critical for the establishment of normal adipose mass in mice. Exposure of mice to high fat diet only during this time period results in metabolic dysfunction, increased leptin expression, and increased adipocyte size in adulthood in the absence of sustained increased fat mass or body weight. These findings indicate that exposure to obesogenic stimuli during critical developmental periods have prolonged effects on adipose tissue function that may contribute to the exacerbated metabolic dysfunctions associated with childhood obesity.

Stevia rebaudiana (SR) is often used by the food industry due to its steviol glycoside content, which is a suitable calorie-free sweetener. Further, both in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that these glycosides and the extracts from SR have pharmacological and therapeutic properties, including antioxidant, antimicrobial, antihypertensive, antidiabetic, and anticancer. This work reviews the antiobesity, antihyperglycemic, antihypertensive, and antihyperlipidemic effects of the majority of glycosides and aqueous/alcoholic extracts from the leaves, flowers, and roots of the SR. These compounds can serve as a natural and alternative treatment for diseases that are associated with metabolic syndrome, thus contributing to health promotion.

To evaluate the reproducibility (reliability and agreement) of different physical performance measures in individuals with obesity.

Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes, and end organ failure, and is often found concomitant with disorders characteristic of the Metabolic Syndrome (MetS), including obesity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance. While the associated features often occur together, the pathway(s) or mechanism(s) linking hypertension in MetS are not well understood. Previous work determined that genetic variation on rat chromosome 17 (RNO17) contributes to several MetS-defining traits (including hypertension, obesity, and dyslipidemia) in the Lyon Hypertensive (LH) rat, a genetically determined MetS model. We hypothesized that at least some of the traits on RNO17 are controlled by a single gene with pleiotropic effects. To address this hypothesis, consomic and congenic strains were developed, whereby a defined fragment of RNO17 from the LH rat was substituted with the control Lyon Normotensive (LN) rat, and MetS phenotypes were measured in the resultant progeny. Compared to LH rats, LH-17LN consomic rats have significantly reduced body weight, blood pressure, and lipid profiles. A congenic strain (LH-17LNc), with a substituted fragment at the distal end of RNO17 (17q12.3; 74-97 Mb; rn4 assembly), showed differences from the LH rat in blood pressure and serum total cholesterol and triglycerides. Interestingly, there was no difference in body weight between the LH-17LNc and the parental LH rat. These data indicate that blood pressure and serum lipids are regulated by a gene(s) in the distal congenic interval, and could be due to pleiotropy. The data also indicate that body weight is not determined by the same gene(s) at this locus. Interestingly, only two small haplotypes spanning a total of approximately 0.5 Mb differ between the LH and LN genomes in the congenic interval. Genes in these haplotypes are strong candidate genes for causing dyslipidemia in the LH rat. Overall, MetS, even in a simplified genetic model such as the LH-17LN rat, is likely due to both independent and pleiotropic gene effects.

High-protein diets (HPDs) are associated with greater satiety and weight loss than diets rich in other macronutrients. The exact mechanisms by which HPDs exert their effects are unclear. However, evidence suggests that the sensing of amino acids produced as a result of protein digestion may have a role in appetite regulation and satiety. We investigated the effects of l-phenylalanine (L-Phe) on food intake and glucose homeostasis in rodents.

Gut microbiota is important for maintaining body weight. Modulation of gut microbiota by probiotics may result in weight loss and thus help in obesity treatment. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the effects of Lactobacillus on weight loss and/or fat mass in overweight adults. A search was performed on the Medline (PubMed) and Scopus electronic databases using the search terms: 'probiotics', 'Lactobacillus, 'obesity', 'body weight changes', 'weight loss', 'overweight', 'abdominal obesity', 'body composition', 'body weight', 'body fat' and 'fat mass'. In the total were found 1567 articles, but only 14 were included in this systematic review. Of these nine showed decreased body weight and/or body fat, three did not find effect and two showed weight gain. Results suggest that the beneficial effects are strain dependent. It can highlight that Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus rhamnosus when combined with a hypocaloric diet, L. plantarum with Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus amylovorus, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactobacillus casei with phenolic compounds, and multiple species of Lactobacillus.International Journal of Obesity advance online publication, 8 August 2017; doi:10.1038/ijo.2017.161.

Obesity is a global pandemic that brings about a myriad of health consequences. In the past, policies for combating obesity mainly focused on improving individual health and behavior, but nowadays some policies have changed and now concentrate on improving the built environment believing this can improve health through positive changes to health-related behaviors. We examined whether both individual and environmental factors were associated with body mass index in Seoul, the capital city of South Korea. Data from the 2011 and 2013 Community Health Surveys were used (n = 20,147 men and 25,300 women). We staged multilevel logistic regression models to estimate the effect of individual and environmental factors on obesity. Among individual covariates, high-risk drinking, the time spent watching TV and surfing the Internet, high salt intake, stress, and the negative recognition of health were significantly associated with obesity. When controlling individual covariates, the number of sports facilities, number of fried chicken stores, and food insecurity level were statistically associated with probability of obesity. Therefore, this study emphasizes that it is important not only to improve the health behavior of the individual, but also to improve the urban environment in order to reduce the obesity rates of city dwellers.

Cardio-metabolic disease, namely ischemic heart disease, stroke, obesity, and type 2 diabetes, represent substantial health and economic burdens. Almost one half of cardio-metabolic deaths in the U.S. might be prevented through proper nutrition. Plant-based (vegetarian and vegan) diets are an effective strategy for improving nutrient intake. At the same time, they are associated with decreased all-cause mortality and decreased risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and coronary heart disease. Evidence suggests that plant-based diets may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease events by an estimated 40% and the risk of cerebral vascular disease events by 29%. These diets also reduce the risk of developing metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes by about one half. Properly planned vegetarian diets are healthful, effective for weight and glycemic control, and provide metabolic and cardiovascular benefits, including reversing atherosclerosis and decreasing blood lipids and blood pressure. The use of plant-based diets as a means of prevention and treatment of cardio-metabolic disease should be promoted through dietary guidelines and recommendations.

Since pathophysiologic evidence has been raised to suggest that obesity could facilitate an allergic reaction, obesity has been known as an independent risk factor for allergic disease such as asthma. However, the relationship between sedentary behavior and lifestyle which could lead to obesity, and those allergic diseases remains unclear.

The aim of this study was the compare the midterm outcomes of laparoscopic greater curvature plication (LGCP) and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) in obese patients with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 to 35 kg/m².

Overweight and obesity in children, and adolescents is on the rise globally. Affected children are prone to cardio-metabolic problems later in life, especially hypertension. The prevalence of obesity/overweight may differ depending on school type. Private schools are attended mostly by children of the affluent, while public schools are attended predominantly by those in the low and middle socio-economic classes.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is currently the leading cause of menstrual complications in women. It is characterized by clinical and/or biochemical hyperandrogenism, ovulation abnormalities and the presence of enlarged and/or polycystic ovaries in ultrasound images (12 or more small bubbles located circumferentially and/or ovarian volume > 10 mL). It is often comorbid with hyperinsulinemia, dyslipidemia, overweight or obesity, and is a risk factor for the development of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). The treatment of patients with PCOS depends on the prevailing symptoms. The aim of this paper is to present the etiopathogenesis, clinical and biochemical implications, and non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatment options - those approved by worldwide scientific organizations as well as new therapies whose initial results are encouraging enough to prompt researchers to explore them further.

Studies conducted in Poland have found that 1% (~300,000) of Polish adults are obese. The degree of weight loss and reduction of discomfort associated with severe obesity are used to evaluate bariatric surgery outcomes. From the patient's point of view, QoL and mental health are the most important determinants of successful surgery, which is why interest in QoL assessment has increased.

Predictive equations are the main clinical tools for determining resting energy expenditure (REE). However, their adequate use in overweight and obese individuals is unclear. Thus, we investigated the best predictive equations for estimating REE in overweight and obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).

In light of the rapid increase in the number of obesity incidences worldwide, obesity has become an independent risk factor for chronic kidney disease. Obesity-related glomerulopathy (ORG) is characterized by glomerulomegaly in the presence or absence of focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis lesions. IgM and complement 3 (C3) nonspecifically deposit in lesions without immune-complex-type deposits during ORG immunofluorescence. ORG-associated glomerulomegaly and focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis can superimpose on other renal pathologies. The mechanisms under ORG are complex, especially hemodynamic changes, inflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and reduced functioning nephrons. These mechanisms synergize with obesity to induce end-stage renal disease. A slow increase of subnephrotic proteinuria ( < 3.5 g/d) is the most common clinical manifestation of ORG. Several treatment methods for ORG have been developed. Of these methods, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade and weight loss are proven effective. Targeting mitochondria may offer a novel strategy for ORG therapy. Nevertheless, more research is needed to further understand ORG.

Even though health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is considered an important component of bariatric surgery outcome, there is a lack of HRQOL measures relevant for preoperative and postoperative patients. The objective of the current study was to develop a new instrument assessing HRQOL prior to and following bariatric surgery, entitled Quality of Life for Obesity Surgery (QOLOS) Questionnaire.

Obesity is linked to inferior transplant outcome. Bariatric surgery (BS) is an established treatment of morbid obesity. We provide an overview on BS in the field of kidney (KT) and liver transplantation (LT). In end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and KT patients, BS seems safe and feasible. Complication rates were slightly higher compared to the non-transplant population, whereas weight loss and improvement of comorbidities were comparable. Sleeve gastrectomy (SG) was the preferred procedure before KT and superior to gastric bypass (GB) in regard to mortality and morbidity. If conducted after KT, both procedures showed comparable results. BS before LT was associated with high complication rates, in particular after GB. Albeit distinct complications, SG conducted after LT showed the best results. Immunosuppression (IS) changes after BS were rare.

Not only obesity but also sarcopenia is associated with NAFLD. The influence of altered body composition on the pathophysiology of NAFLD has not been fully elucidated. The aim of this study is to determine whether skeletal muscle mass to visceral fat area ratio (SV ratio) affects NAFLD pathophysiology.

Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is a common and distressing complication from chemotherapy. Symptoms often, but not always, improve with time. The prevalence of long-term PN symptoms in breast cancer survivors is not well known. We sought to explore PN symptoms and associated risk factors among breast cancer survivors at least 2 years out from diagnosis.

Obesity-linked ectopic fat accumulation is associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. Whether pancreatic and liver steatosis impairs insulin secretion is controversial. We examined the crosstalk of human pancreatic fat cells with islets and the role of diabetogenic factors, i.e. palmitate and fetuin-A, a hepatokine released from fatty liver.

Nowadays, the society is facing a large health problem with the rising of new diseases, including cancer, heart diseases, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and obesity. Thus, it is important to invest in substances that enhance the health of the population. In this context, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is a flavonoid found in many plants, especially in tea. Several studies support the notion that EGCG has several benefits in fighting cancer, heart diseases, diabetes, and obesity, among others. Nevertheless, the poor intestinal absorbance and instability of EGCG constitute the main drawback to use this molecule in prevention and therapy. The encapsulation of EGCG in nanocarriers leads to its enhanced stability and higher therapeutic effects. A comprehensive review of studies currently available on the encapsulation of EGCG by means of nanocarriers will be addressed.

Dietary supplementation with complex carbohydrates is known to alter the composition of gut microbiota, and optimal implementation of the use of these so called "prebiotics" could be of great potential in prevention and possibly treatment of obesity and associated cardiometabolic and inflammatory diseases via changes in the gut microbiota. An alternative to this "microbiocentric view" is the idea that health-promoting effects of certain complex carbohydrates reside in the host, and could secondarily affect the diversity and abundance of gut microbiota. To circumvent this potential interpretational problem, we aimed at providing an overview about whether and how dietary supplementation of different complex carbohydrates changes the gut microbiome in healthy non-obese individuals. We then reviewed whether the reported changes in gut bacterial members found to be established by complex carbohydrates would benefit or harm the cardiometabolic and immunological health of the host taking into account the alterations in the microbiome composition and abundance known to be associated with obesity and its associated disorders. By combining these research areas, we aimed to give a better insight into the potential of (foods containing) complex carbohydrates in the treatment and prevention of above-mentioned diseases. We conclude that supplemental complex carbohydrates that increase Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli, without increasing the deleterious Bacteroides, are most likely promoting cardiometabolic and immunological health in obese subjects. Because certain complex carbohydrates also affect the host's immunity directly, it is likely that host-microbiome interactions in determination of health and disease characteristics are indeed bidirectional. Overall, this review article shows that whereas it is relatively clear in which direction supplemental fermentable carbohydrates can alter the gut microbiome, the relevance of these changes regarding health remains controversial. Future research should take into account the different causes of obesity and its adverse health conditions, which in turn have drastic effects on the microbiome balance.

The global overfat pandemic is a serious public health crisis that places a substantial burden on economic resources in developed countries. The term overfat refers to the presence of excess body fat that can impair health, even for normal weight non-obese individuals. Excess body fat is associated with cardiometabolic dysfunction, a clinical situation that can progressively worsen, potentially leading to various common disease risk factors, chronic diseases, increased morbidity and mortality, and reduced quality of life. The prevalence of overfat populations in 30 of the world's most developed countries is substantially higher than recent global estimations, with the largest growth due to a relatively recent increased number of people with excess abdominal fat. Abdominal overfat is the most unhealthful form of this condition, so it is concerning that average waist circumference measures, generally indicative of abdominal overfat, have increased. Despite a leveling off appearance of being overweight and/or obese in some developed countries, the overfat pandemic continues to grow.

To evaluate the risk factors for pterygium in the dry, high altitude province of Ilam, Iran.

A study with United States undergraduate students showed individuals high in concern with future consequences engage in exercise and healthy eating because they adopt a promotion orientation, which represents the extent to which individuals are inclined to pursue positive gains. The present article reports a cross-cultural replication of the mediation findings with undergraduate samples from Brazil and New Zealand. Promotion orientation mediated the association between concern with future consequences and exercise attitudes in both countries, but the associations for healthy eating were not replicated-which could be explained by distinct obesity prevalence and eating habits in these socio-cultural contexts. We discuss theoretical and practical implications of the findings for promoting health behavior.

Sucralose is the most widely used artificial sweetener, and its health effects have been highly debated over the years. In particular, previous studies have shown that sucralose consumption can alter the gut microbiota. The gut microbiome plays a key role in processes related to host health, such as food digestion and fermentation, immune cell development, and enteric nervous system regulation. Inflammation is one of the most common effects associated with gut microbiome dysbiosis, which has been linked to a series of human diseases, such as diabetes and obesity. The aim of this study was to investigate the structural and functional effects of sucralose on the gut microbiota and associated inflammation in the host. In this study, C57BL/6 male mice received sucralose in their drinking water for 6 months. The difference in gut microbiota composition and metabolites between control and sucralose-treated mice was determined using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, functional gene enrichment analysis and metabolomics. Inflammatory gene expression in tissues was analyzed by RT-PCR. Alterations in bacterial genera showed that sucralose affects the gut microbiota and its developmental dynamics. Enrichment of bacterial pro-inflammatory genes and disruption in fecal metabolites suggest that 6-month sucralose consumption at the human acceptable daily intake (ADI) may increase the risk of developing tissue inflammation by disrupting the gut microbiota, which is supported by elevated pro-inflammatory gene expression in the liver of sucralose-treated mice. Our results highlight the role of sucralose-gut microbiome interaction in regulating host health-related processes, particularly chronic inflammation.

The loss of fat-free mass (FFM) caused by very-low-calorie diets (VLCD) can be attenuated by exercise. The aim of this study was to determine the role played by exercise and dietary protein content in preserving the lean mass and performance of exercised and non-exercised muscles, during a short period of extreme energy deficit (~23 MJ deficit/day). Fifteen overweight men underwent three consecutive experimental phases: baseline assessment (PRE), followed by 4 days of caloric restriction and exercise (CRE) and then 3 days on a control diet combined with reduced exercise (CD). During CRE, the participants ingested a VLCD and performed 45 min of one-arm cranking followed by 8 h walking each day. The VLCD consisted of 0.8 g/kg body weight/day of either whey protein (PRO, n = 8) or sucrose (SU, n = 7). FFM was reduced after CRE (P < 0.001), with the legs and the exercised arm losing proportionally less FFM than the control arm [57% (P < 0.05) and 29% (P = 0.05), respectively]. Performance during leg pedaling, as reflected by the peak oxygen uptake and power output (Wpeak), was reduced after CRE by 15 and 12%, respectively (P < 0.05), and recovered only partially after CD. The deterioration of cycling performance was more pronounced in the whey protein than sucrose group (P < 0.05). Wpeak during arm cranking was unchanged in the control arm, but improved in the contralateral arm by arm cranking. There was a linear relationship between the reduction in whole-body FFM between PRE and CRE and the changes in the cortisol/free testosterone ratio (C/FT), serum isoleucine, leucine, tryptophan, valine, BCAA, and EAA (r = -0.54 to -0.71, respectively, P < 0.05). C/FT tended to be higher in the PRO than the SU group following CRE (P = 0.06). In conclusion, concomitant low-intensity exercise such as walking or arm cranking even during an extreme energy deficit results in remarkable preservation of lean mass. The intake of proteins alone may be associated with greater cortisol/free testosterone ratio and is not better than the ingestion of only carbohydrates for preserving FFM and muscle performance in interventions of short duration.

Scoliosis is a complex three-dimensional spine deformity with the frontal plane deflexion (side-shift) of the series of vertebra from the midline and with torque deformity of vertebra, ribs, and the entire trunk towards the apex of curve. Chronic venous diseases present a group of pathological conditions caused by the increased venous pressure. The venous pressure may be increased due to genetics, ligament laxity, general obesity, injuries, and changes in biomechanics of spine and lower extremities, etc.

Vacuum-assisted closure(VAC) therapy is mainly used for tissue defects. VAC therapy can remove exudate that could impair the healing process. We applied VAC therapy in patients considered at high risk of surgical site infection who underwent cardiovascular surgery via standard median sternotomy. Risk factors included advanced heart failure, obesity, diabetes mellitus, steroid administration, immunosuppressant administration, and chronic renal failure, etc. VAC therapy was used in 134 patients. Only 3 of these patients (2.2%) developed surgical site infection caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis;2 patients fully recovered after prolonged VAC therapy for 2 weeks, and the other required an additional sternal fixation after the sternal wires were removed for wound infection control. No patient developed infective mediastinitis. Prophylactic VAC therapy can reduce postoperative wound infection in high risk patients undergoing open heart surgery via full sternotomy.

To compare cardiovascular risk factors as well as rates of cardiovascular diseases in middle-aged women from urban areas in Scotland and Sweden.

The optimal duration of osteoporosis treatment is controversial. As opposed to bisphosphonates, denosumab does not incorporate into bone matrix and bone turnover is not suppressed after its cessation. Recent reports imply that denosumab discontinuation may lead to an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures.

Some anthropometric measurements show a greater capacity than others to identify the presence of cardiovascular risk factors. This study estimated the magnitude of the association of different anthropometric indicators of obesity with hypertension, dyslipidemia, and prediabetes (altered fasting plasma glucose and/or glycosylated hemoglobin).

There is an accumulating body of evidence to indicate that stress leads to the consumption of unhealthy, energy-dense, palatable food, potentially contributing to the alarming global prevalence of chronic diseases, including obesity. However, comparatively little research has been devoted to addressing how best to remedy this growing problem. We provide an overview of the influence of stress on dietary intake, and then explore the novel, yet simple, possibility that regular elicitation of the relaxation response may effectively reduce stress-induced eating via both physiological and psychological pathways. If shown to be effective, the regular practice of relaxation may provide a convenient, cost efficient, patient-centered therapeutic practice to assist in the prevention of unhealthy weight gain and other negative consequences of unhealthy food intake.

The transmission of overweight from one generation to the next is well established, however little is known about what psychosocial factors may protect against this familial risk. The aim of this study was to examine whether optimism plays a role in the intergenerational transmission of obesity.

Early life nutrition and feeding practices are important modifiable determinants of subsequent obesity, yet little is known about the circadian feeding pattern of 12-month-old infants. We aimed to describe the 24-h feeding patterns of 12-month-old infants and examine their associations with maternal and infant characteristics. Mothers from a prospective birth cohort study (n 431) reported dietary intakes of their 12-month-old infants and respective feeding times using 24-h dietary recall. Based on their feeding times, infants were classified into post-midnight (00.00-05.59 hours) and pre-midnight (06.00-23.59 hours) feeders. Mean daily energy intake was 3234 (sd 950) kJ (773 (sd 227) kcal), comprising 51·8 (sd 7·8) % carbohydrate, 33·9 (sd 7·2) % fat and 14·4 (sd 3·2) % protein. Mean hourly energy intake and proportion of infants fed were lower during post-midnight than pre-midnight hours. There were 251 (58·2 %) pre-midnight and 180 (41·8 %) post-midnight feeders. Post-midnight feeders consumed higher daily energy, carbohydrate, fat and protein intakes than pre-midnight feeders (all P<0·001). The difference in energy intake originated from energy content consumed during the post-midnight period. Majority (n 173) of post-midnight feeders consumed formula milk during the post-midnight period. Using multivariate logistic regression with confounder adjustment, exclusively breast-feeding during the first 6 months of life was negatively associated with post-midnight feeding at 12 months (adjusted OR 0·31; 95 % CI 0·11, 0·82). This study provides new insights into the circadian pattern of energy intake during infancy. Our findings indicated that the timing of feeding at 12 months was associated with daily energy and macronutrient intakes, and feeding mode during early infancy.

Systematic identification of evidence in health policy can be time-consuming and challenging. This study examines three questions pertaining to systematic reviews on obesity prevention policy, in order to identify the most efficient search methods: (1) What percentage of the primary studies selected for inclusion in the reviews originated in scholarly as opposed to gray literature? (2) How much of the primary scholarly literature in this topic area is indexed in PubMed/MEDLINE? (3) Which databases index the greatest number of primary studies not indexed in PubMed, and are these databases searched consistently across systematic reviews?

The current global rates of obesity and type 2 diabetes are staggering. In order to implement effective management strategies, it is imperative to understand the mechanisms of obesity-induced insulin resistance and diabetes. Macrophage infiltration and inflammation of the adipose tissue in obesity is a well-established paradigm, yet the role of macrophages in muscle inflammation, insulin resistance and diabetes is not adequately studied. In this systematic review, we will examine the evidence for the presence of macrophages in skeletal muscle of obese humans and mice, and will assess the association between muscle macrophages and insulin resistance. We will identify published studies that address muscle macrophage content and phenotype, and its association with insulin resistance. We will search MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, and Web of Science for eligible studies. Grey literature will be searched in ProQuest. Quality assessment will be conducted using the Systematic Review Centre for Laboratory Animal Experimentation risk of bias Tool for animal studies.

Data regarding the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) among hypertensive patients in Ethiopia is very scarce, and the nature and the burden of MetS among these patients has not been well investigated. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the pattern and risk factors of MetS in hypertensive patients.

A substantial proportion of adolescents, particularly girls and minority youth, fail to meet daily physical activity (PA) recommendations. Social support contributes to adolescent PA, but studies examining this relationship have yielded inconsistent results and rarely focus on diverse, urban populations.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma is an aggressive and potentially lethal form of skin cancer, particularly in its advanced and therapy-resistant stages, and the need for novel therapeutics and prognostic tools is acute. Incidence of melanoma has steadily increased over the past few decades, with exposure to the genome-damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) well-recognized as a primary cause. A number of genetically-engineered mouse models (GEMMs) have been created that exhibit high incidence of spontaneous and induced forms of melanoma, and a select subset recapitulates its progression to aggressive and metastatic forms. These GEMMs hold considerable promise for providing insights into advanced stages of melanoma, such as potential therapeutic targets and prognostic markers, and as in vivo systems for testing of novel therapies. In this review, we summarize how the HGF/SF transgenic mouse has been used to reveal metastasis-regulating activity of four different genes (CDK4(R24C), survivin and NME1/NME2) in the context of UV-induced melanoma. We also discuss how these models can potentially yield new strategies for clinical management of melanoma in its most aggressive forms.

Overweight (OW) and obesity (OB) are endemic in the United States and affect adolescents and adults with congenital heart disease (ACHD). Defining the burden of excess weight on the cardiovascular system in ACHD is the goal of this study. Limitation of exercise capacity due to overweight or obesity might be reversible with weight loss and improve quality of life for ACHD adults.

Natriuretic peptides (NP) are well-validated aids in the diagnosis of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF). In acute presentations, both brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal of the prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) offer high sensitivity (>90 %) and negative predictive values (>95 %) for ruling out ADHF at thresholds of 100 and 300 pg/ml, respectively. Plasma NP rise with age. For added rule-in performance age-adjusted thresholds (450 pg/ml for under 50 years, 900 pg/ml for 50-75 years and 1,800 pg/ml for those >75 years) can be applied to NT-proBNP results. Test performance (specificity and accuracy but not sensitivity) is clearly reduced by renal dysfunction and atrial fibrillation. Obesity offsets the threshold downwards (to ~50 pg/ml for BNP), but overall discrimination is preserved. Reliable markers for impending acute kidney injury in ADHF constitute an unmet need, with candidates, such as kidney injury molecule-1 and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, failing to perform sufficiently well, and new possibilities, including the cell cycle markers insulin growth factor binding protein 7 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases type 2, remain the subject of research.

In 2009, the Institute of Medicine published the report Weight Gain During Pregnancy: Reexamining the Guidelines as a call to action for health care providers. The report suggests that at 6 months postpartum, approximately 50% of women still retained an excess weight of 10 pounds or more and that 25% retained 20 pounds or more. Long-term consequences of postpartum weight retention and subsequent obesity include postpartum depression, successive pregnancy complications, and chronic health conditions. This article describes Motivated Moms, an evidence-based postpartum weight management program in an outpatient clinic. Motivated Moms uses a multilevel approach including diet, social support, and self-monitoring, with the goal of reducing postpartum weight retention.

Few studies have investigated venous wall remodeling after venous thrombosis through rodent models. Such information is lacking in humans. This study was designed to determine the acute and chronic effects of thrombus on the vein wall.

To compare efficacy and safety of a manual-based low-level psychological intervention with treatment as usual (weight loss treatment).

We examined the effect of restriction of foods with high fructose content in obese school children.

Worldwide increasing childhood obesity is due to interactions between environmental and genetic factors, linked together by epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation.

I estimate the effect of body mass index (BMI) on wages across the unconditional distribution of wages. I find that for whites and Hispanics the effect of BMI is generally decreasing across the wage distribution; at the .9 quantile of the wage distribution, a two standard deviation increase in BMI reduces wages by 8% for white males, 13% for white females, 9% for Hispanic males, and 16% for Hispanic females. Conversely, at the .1 quantile, a two standard deviation increase in BMI affects wages by less than 2% for all these groups. For black males, the effect of BMI is positive, and either increasing or non-linear in wages. For black females, the estimates tend to be more uniform across the wage distribution. I discuss possible explanations for these inter-quantile differences including preference discrimination, productivity differences, and statistical discrimination. The results point to a new explanation for the observed correlation between socioeconomic status and body weight: individuals with higher income earning potential have differential incentives to maintain a lower BMI.

Maternal pre-pregnancy overweight is known to program offspring for adverse health outcomes later in life.

This review describes what is known concerning the burden of hypertension among people living with HIV (PLHIV), and also addresses relevant topics with respect to its risk factors and clinical management.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the cardiovascular and metabolic risk profile in pediatric patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH).

The benefits of physical activity (PA) in preventing abdominal obesity are well recognized, but the role of different sport disciplines remains open. We aimed, therefore, to investigate how participation in different sport disciplines, and the number and types of sports engaged in are associated with waist circumference (WC) in young adulthood.

In order to examine whether environmental settings influence psychological and physiological responses of women with obesity during self-paced walking, 38 women performed two exercise sessions (treadmill and outdoors) for 30 min, where oxygen uptake, heart rate, ratings of perceived exertion, affect, attentional focus, enjoyment, and future intentions to walk were analyzed. Physiological responses were similar during both sessions. However, during outdoor exercise, participants displayed higher externally focused attention, positive affect, and lower ratings of perceived exertion, followed by greater enjoyment and future intention to participate in outdoor walking. The more externally focused attention predicted greater future intentions to participate in walking. Therefore, women with obesity self-selected an appropriate exercise intensity to improve fitness and health in both environmental settings. Also, self-paced outdoor walking presented improved psychological responses. Health care professionals should consider promoting outdoor forms of exercise to maximize psychological benefits and promote long-term adherence to a physically active lifestyle.

This study compared the accuracy of physical activity energy expenditure (PAEE) prediction using two methods of accounting for age dependency versus one standard (single) value across all ages.

To investigate the effects of a low vs. high intensity aerobic training on biomarkers of inflammation and endothelial dysfunction in adolescents with obesity.

Overweight and obesity among children has emerged as one of the most serious public health concerns in the 21st century, which is a predictor of adulthood obesity, morbidity and mortality. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence of overweight /obesity and associated factors among preschool children.

Clinical evidence suggests that symptoms in premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) reflect abnormal responsivity to ovarian steroids. This differential steroid sensitivity could be underpinned by abnormal processing of the steroid signal. We used a pharmacometabolomics approach in women with prospectively confirmed PMDD (n=15) and controls without menstrual cycle-related affective symptoms (n=15). All were medication-free with normal menstrual cycle lengths. Notably, women with PMDD were required to show hormone sensitivity in an ovarian suppression protocol. Ovarian suppression was induced for 6 months with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-agonist (Lupron); after 3 months all were randomized to 4 weeks of estradiol (E2) or progesterone (P4). After a 2-week washout, a crossover was performed. Liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry measured 49 steroid metabolites in serum. Values were excluded if >40% were below the limit of detectability (n=21). Analyses were performed with Wilcoxon rank-sum tests using false-discovery rate (q<0.2) for multiple comparisons. PMDD and controls had similar basal levels of metabolites during Lupron and P4-derived neurosteroids during Lupron or E2/P4 conditions. Both groups had significant increases in several steroid metabolites compared with the Lupron alone condition after treatment with E2 (that is, estrone-SO4 (q=0.039 and q=0.002, respectively) and estradiol-3-SO4 (q=0.166 and q=0.001, respectively)) and after treatment with P4 (that is, allopregnanolone (q=0.001 for both PMDD and controls), pregnanediol (q=0.077 and q=0.030, respectively) and cortexone (q=0.118 and q=0.157, respectively). Only sulfated steroid metabolites showed significant diagnosis-related differences. During Lupron plus E2 treatment, women with PMDD had a significantly attenuated increase in E2-3-sulfate (q=0.035) compared with control women, and during Lupron plus P4 treatment a decrease in DHEA-sulfate (q=0.07) compared with an increase in controls. Significant effects of E2 addback compared with Lupron were observed in women with PMDD who had significant decreases in DHEA-sulfate (q=0.065) and pregnenolone sulfate (q=0.076), whereas controls had nonsignificant increases (however, these differences did not meet statistical significance for a between diagnosis effect). Alterations of sulfotransferase activity could contribute to the differential steroid sensitivity in PMDD. Importantly, no differences in the formation of P4-derived neurosteroids were observed in this otherwise highly selected sample of women studied under controlled hormone exposures.

Aim To determine socioeconomic and demographic factors associated with abdominal obesity in women of childbearing age. Methods This cross-sectional study was carried out in family medicine outpatient departments of the Primary Health Care Centre of Canton Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The study included 300 respondents who were divided into two groups: non-abdominal obesity (n=150) and abdominal obesity (n=150). Abdominal obesity was estimated measuring waist circumference. Data concerning socioeconomic and demographic factors (age, marital status, "live alone", place of residence, formal education level, self-perceived financial status) were collected using a designed questionnaire. Logistic regression analysis was used to estimate the association between socioeconomic, demographic factors and abdominal obesity. Results Abdominal obesity was significantly associated with the life in the urban area (OR=2.174, 95%CI=1.362-3.471), university education (OR=9.881, 95%CI=3.222-30.301) and slightly better financial status than average (OR=2.412, 95%CI=1.302-4.470). Marital status (OR=0.190, 95%CI=0.104-0.347) and no living alone (OR=0.357, 95%CI=0.165-0.773) protect from abdominal obesity. Respondents aged between 20-29 years represent a particularly vulnerable group in terms of abdominal obesity (OR=1.030, 95%CI=0.097-10.946). Conclusion The strongest associations have been found between abdominal obesity and education. Public health programs that aim to reduce abdominal obesity in women of childbearing age should mainly focus on women with university education.

Pulmonary embolism (PE) is common but difficult to diagnose.

Recent epidemiological and experimental studies have shown that obesity is a major risk factor for colorectal cancer (CRC). Regular intake of high fat-containing diet can promote obesity and metabolic syndrome by increasing the insulin resistance and inflammatory response which contribute to carcinogenesis. Previously, we have shown that inhibition of polyol pathway enzyme aldose reductase (AR) prevents carcinogens- and inflammatory growth factors-induced CRC. However, the effect of AR inhibition on a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced formation of intestinal polyps in Apc-deficient Min (multiple intestinal neoplasia; ApcMin/+) mice is not known.

The transition from physical activity to inactivity is associated with drastic increases in 'catch-up' fat that in turn foster the development of many obesity-associated maladies. We tested if 5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide (AICAR) treatment would prevent gains in body fat following the sudden transition from a physically active state to an inactive state by locking a voluntary running wheel. Male, Wistar rats were either sedentary (SED), or given wheel access for 4 weeks, at which time rats with wheels continued running (RUN), either had their wheel locked (WL), or had WL with daily AICAR injection (WL + AICAR) for 1 week. RUN and WL + AICAR prevented gains in body fat compared to SED and WL (P < 0.001). Cyclin A1 mRNA, a marker of cell proliferation, was decreased in omental (OMAT), but not subcutaneous (SAT) adipose tissue, in RUN and WL + AICAR compared to SED and WL (P < 0.05). Both cyclin A1 mRNA and protein positively associated with gains in fat mass (P < 0.05). Cyclin A1 mRNA in OMAT, but not SAT, negatively correlated with p-AMPK levels (P < 0.05). Differences in fat gain and OMAT mRNA and protein levels were independent of changes in food intake and in differences in select hypothalamic mRNAs. These findings suggest that AICAR treatment prevents acute gains in adipose tissue following physical inactivity to levels of rats that continuously run, and that together continuous physical activity and AICAR could, at least initially under these conditions, exert similar inhibitory effects on adipogenesis in a depot-specific manner. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Obesity leads to an altered adipocytokine production negatively effecting the function of natural killer cells (NK cells), which are important effector cells of the innate immune system. NK cells provide a defence against tumour cells or virus infected cells and have different activating and inhibitory surface receptors to distinguish between normal and transformed cells. One group of the inhibitory receptors are the sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectins (Siglecs). The aim of this study was to compare the expression of Siglecs-7, -9 and -10 on NK cells from normal weight and obese subjects. Therefore peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from 10 normal weight (BMI < 25 kg/m(2)) and 11 obese (BMI > 30 kg/m(2)) blood donors and analysed by flow cytometry. Moreover, the amount of sialic acid on NK cell was determined using a fluorescent labelled lectin that binds terminal sialic acids. Percentages of immune cells were not altered between normal weight and obese individuals. CD56(bright) NK cells from obese subjects had a reduced expression of Siglec-7 while the expression of Siglec-9 was not altered. The reduction of Siglec-7 expression on CD56(bright) NK cells might be a marker for their dysfunction. Moreover, Siglecs-7, -9 and -10 are not expressed on the NK cell lines NK-92 and NKL. When comparing the two NK cell subpopulations CD56(bright) and CD56(dim), CD56(bright) NK cells had a higher amount of sialic acids on their surface compared to CD56(dim) NK cells regardless of body weight.

The clearance of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A substrates is reported to be reduced with lower age, inflammation and obesity. As it is unknown what the overall influence is of these factors in the case of obese adolescents vs. morbidly obese adults, we studied covariates influencing the clearance of the CYP3A substrate midazolam in a combined analysis of data from obese adolescents and morbidly obese adults.

The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) among Japanese morbidly obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery and the impact of bariatric surgery on their renal function has not previously been investigated.

This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of only Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and body mass index (BMI) of 30-40 kg/m(2). A literature search was performed on MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane CENTRAL. The searches were performed in February 2017. English was the target language of the publications. The PICO question was used to determine eligibility for studies to be included: population, patient with BMI 30-40 kg/m2; intervention, RYGB; comparison, control group with medical care alone; and outcome, metabolic outcomes. Only randomized clinical trials (RCT) were selected. The main outcome was T2D remission. Secondary outcomes were metabolic effect of RYGB, such as hypertension and dyslipidemia. A total of five RCTs were included. The studies included a larger proportion of women, and the average time of T2D duration ranged between 6 and 10 years with 43.3% of the patients having a BMI below 35 kg/m(2). Despite randomization, the baseline demographics such as age, HbA1c, and duration of diabetes were often less favorable in the surgical group. At the longest follow-up, RYGB significantly improves total and partial type 2 remission, OR 17.48 (95% CI 4.28-71.35) and OR 20.71 (95% CI 5.16-83.12), respectively. HbA1c also reduces at longest follow-up in the surgery group (- 1.83 (95% CI - 2.14; - 1.51)). All these three outcomes revealed high level of evidence according to GRADE evaluation. There is already strong evidence that RYGB improves metabolic outcomes for at least 5 years in patients with class I obesity.

The aim of this study was to investigate changes in attitudes of the general public towards bariatric surgery and other interventions that can be part of obesity management, during the last 5 years.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating and neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system, for which disease modifying therapies (DMTs) are the mainstay treatment approach to reduce inflammatory disease activity and slow worsening disability. In addition to conventional pharmacologic therapy, there is growing interest in the use of lifestyle strategies to support wellness and mitigate disease-related complications in MS. This interest stems from a growing appreciation of the role of certain comorbidities and lifestyle factors on disease activity, disability, mortality, and overall quality of life. While the current literature is not conclusive, there is evidence to suggest a potential role for vitamin D supplementation, tobacco smoking cessation, routine exercise, a plant-based, anti-inflammatory diet, and maintenance of emotional well-being as adjunct therapies to DMTs. In addition to DMTs, lifestyle strategies should be emphasized as part of a management plan focused on overall health and well-being.

The aim of this meta-analysis is to comprehensively review and quantify the excess risk of surgical site infections (SSI) in obese patients following colorectal surgery.

The risk factors for post-procedural events after carotid artery stenting (CAS) have not been well established. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between metabolic syndrome (MetS) and the risk of post-CAS complications. A total of 358 consecutive patients who underwent CAS were enrolled in this prospective study. Patients' demographic data, clinical characteristics, and complications after CAS within 30 days were recorded. Logistic regression analysis was performed to identify possible risk factors for post-procedural complications after CAS. The incidence of complications after CAS within 30 days was 7.0%. Logistic regression analysis identified the following as independent risk factors for 30-day transient ischemic attacks, stroke, myocardial infarction, and death after CAS: metabolic syndrome (OR = 2.31, 95% CI 1.91-3.01, P = 0.004), diabetes (OR = 2.24, 95% CI 1.74-2.76, P = 0.026), symptomatic patient (OR = 1.73, 95% CI 1.23-3.05, P = 0.011), and age (OR = 1.87, 95% CI 1.35-2.57, P = 0.042). Among the components of MetS, central obesity (OR = 2.21, 95% CI 1.24-2.63, P = 0.006), low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (OR = 1.66, 95% CI 1.34-2.27, P = 0.022), and high fasting plasma glucose (OR = 2.32, 95% CI 1.85-2.74, P = 0.003) were associated with increased risk of 30-day complications after CAS. This present study suggests that patients with metabolic syndrome have significantly increased risk of complications after CAS within 30 days. Moreover, MetS patients with central obesity, high fasting plasma glucose, or low HDL-C have significantly increased risk of complications after CAS within 30 days.

Previous reports have shown an increased risk of complications after arthroplasty in the obese population. It remains unclear if gastric bypass surgery prior to shoulder arthroplasty modifies the complication and failure rate. The purpose of this study is to assess the complication and re-operation rates following shoulder arthroplasty in this population.

The overwhelming increase in the global incidence of obesity and its associated complications such as insulin resistance, atherosclerosis, pulmonary disease, and degenerative disorders including dementia constitutes a serious public health problem. The Inhibitor of DNA Binding/Differentiation-3 (ID3), a member of the ID family of transcriptional regulators, has been shown to play a role in adipogenesis and therefore ID3 may influence obesity and metabolic health in response to environmental factors. This review will highlight the current understanding of how ID3 may contribute to complex chronic diseases via metabolic perturbations. Based on the increasing number of reports that suggest chronic exposure to and accumulation of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) within the human body are associated with metabolic disorders, we will also consider the impact of these chemicals on ID3. Improved understanding of the ID3 pathways by which exposure to EDCs can potentiate complex chronic diseases in populations with metabolic disorders (obesity, metabolic syndrome, and glucose intolerance) will likely provide useful knowledge in the prevention and control of complex chronic diseases associated with exposure to environmental pollutants.

Obesity has become a worldwide epidemic, and its prevalence has been projected to grow by 40% in the next decade. This increasing prevalence has implications for the risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and also for chronic kidney disease. A high body mass index is one of the strongest risk factors for new-onset chronic kidney disease. In individuals affected by obesity, a compensatory hyperfiltration occurs to meet the heightened metabolic demands of the increased body weight. The increase in intraglomerular pressure can damage the kidneys and raise the risk of developing chronic kidney disease in the long-term. The incidence of obesity-related glomerulopathy has increased 10-fold in recent years. Obesity has also been shown to be a risk factor for nephrolithiasis, and for a number of malignancies including kidney cancer. This year, the World Kidney Day promotes education on the harmful consequences of obesity and its association with kidney disease, advocating healthy lifestyle and health policy measures that make preventive behaviors an affordable option.

The natural phytochemicals present in foods, including anthocyanins, might play a role in attenuating obesity by producing a decrease in weight and adipose tissue. This review focused on current knowledge about anthocyanins' role in obesity and its related comorbidities reported in animal models and humans. We summarized their target identification and mechanism of action through several pathways and their final effects on health and well-being. Into consideration of ongoing researches, we highlighted the following key points: a healthy relationship between anthocyanin supplementation and antiobesity effects suffers of the same pros and cons evidenced when the beneficial responses to other phytochemical treatments towards different degenerative diseases have been considered; the different dosage applied in animal versus clinical studies; the complex metabolism and biotransformation to which anthocyanins and phytochemicals are subjected in the intestine and tissues; the possibility that different components present in the supplemented mixtures can interact generating antagonistic, synergistic, or additive effects difficult to predict, and the difference between prevention and therapy. The evolution of the field must seriously consider the need to establish new and adequate cellular and animal models which may, in turn, allow the design of more efficient and prevention-targeted clinical studies.

Perinatal exposure to maternal obesity and high-fat diet (HFD) consumption not only poses metabolic risks to offspring but also impacts brain development and mental health. Using a non-human primate model, we observed a persistent increase in anxiety in juvenile offspring exposed to a maternal HFD. Postweaning HFD consumption also increased anxiety and independently increased stereotypic behaviors. These behavioral changes were associated with modified cortisol stress response and impairments in the development of the central serotonin synthesis, with altered tryptophan hydroxylase-2 mRNA expression in the dorsal and median raphe. Postweaning HFD consumption decreased serotonergic immunoreactivity in area 10 of the prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that perinatal exposure to HFD consumption programs development of the brain and endocrine system, leading to behavioral impairments associated with mental health and neurodevelopmental disorders. Also, an early nutritional intervention (consumption of the control diet at weaning) was not sufficient to ameliorate many of the behavioral changes, such as increased anxiety, that were induced by maternal HFD consumption. Given the level of dietary fat consumption and maternal obesity in developed nations these findings have important implications for the mental health of future generations.

This corrects the article DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2017.2.

High-fat diet-induced hypothalamic metabolic inflammation is emerging as a cause for the development of obesity. It is acknowledged that Toll-like receptor4 (TLR4) signaling plays a crucial role in triggering of the hypothalamic metabolic inflammation during the course of diet-induced obesity. Whether hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC)-restricted TLR4 knockdown improves obesity-related metabolic disorders remains unexplored. In this study, we used TLR4 shRNA lentiviral particles to suppress the TLR4 expression in the hypothalamic ARC of diet-induced obese rat model by stereotaxic injection. Our results demonstrate that ARC-restricted TLR4 knockdown protects obese rats from diet-induced weight gain and energy intake, from diet-induced impaired glucose homeostasis and peripheral insulin resistance, and from high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis and adipocyte hypertrophy. Thus, we define ARC-restricted TLR4 knockdown as a potential strategy to combat metabolic disorders associated with obesity.

There has been increasing focus on the rising burden of atrial fibrillation (AF) since the turn of the millennium. The AF epidemic is projected not only to have an impact on morbidity and mortality, but also to result in increasing healthcare use and cost. Intensive research over the previous decades has improved our understanding of this complex arrhythmia while unraveling more knowledge gaps and inadequacies of current therapeutic options. Specifically, the advances in catheter ablation technology and strategies have not translated into significant gains in procedural success rates over recent years. Therefore, strategies aiming at lowering the risk of AF development and progression are urgently needed to curtail the AF epidemic and improve outcomes in affected individuals. Recent research has highlighted the potential beneficial effects of lifestyle and risk factor management for AF as upstream noninvasive therapy. The evidence supporting this treatment paradigm beyond routine clinical AF management argues for change in the delivery of care to patients who have this debilitating arrhythmia. In this review, we highlight the contributory role of risk factors to AF pathogenesis from both bench and bedside studies. Next, we discuss the rationale and potential benefits of risk factor modification for sinus rhythm maintenance. Last, we propose an integrated care model to incorporate risk factor modification as the fourth pillar of AF care in conjunction with established pillars of rate control, rhythm control, and anticoagulation therapy.

In recent years, various levels of government in the United States have adopted or discussed subsidies, tax breaks, zoning laws, and other public policies that promote geographic access to healthy food. However, there is little evidence from large-scale longitudinal or quasi-experimental research to suggest that the local mix of food outlets actually affects body mass index (BMI). We used a longitudinal design to examine whether the proximity of food outlets, by type, was associated with BMI changes between 2009 and 2014 among 1.7 million veterans in 382 metropolitan areas. We found no evidence that either absolute or relative geographic accessibility of supermarkets, fast-food restaurants, or mass merchandisers was associated with changes in an individual's BMI over time. While policies that alter only geographic access to food outlets may promote equitable access to healthy food and improve nutrition, our findings suggest they will do little to combat obesity in adults.

The mechanisms and relevance of impaired glucose homeostasis in advanced heart failure (HF) are poorly understood. The study goals were to examine glucose regulation, pancreatic endocrine function, and metabolic factors related to prognosis in patients with nondiabetic advanced HF.

We have previously reported that sea cucumber (SC) inhibits fat accumulation and insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 cells. The present study investigated the anti-obesity and cardio-protective effects of SC freeze-dried gut powder using C57BL/6 as an animal model. Male mice were fed a normal chow diet, a high fat diet (HFD) or a HFD enriched with 2.5, 5 or 7.5% SC gut powder for 4, 8 and 12weeks. Diets enriched with SC caused a significant reduction in body weight gain and fat weight, compared to the HFD, without affecting food intake. Both 2.5% and 5% SC treatment showed a significant reduction in plasma glucose, triacylglycerol (TG), total cholesterol (TC) and non-esterified fatty acids, compared to the HFD. However, animals fed the 7.5% SC diet showed an increase in liver weight, liver TG and TC, compared to the HFD diet. Diets enriched with 2.5% SC caused an increase in adiponectin mRNA expression in adipose tissue and reduced plasma interleukin-6, compared to the HFD diet. Fecal cholesterol excretion increased after 2.5% SC treatment, coinciding with an increase in ATP-binding cassette-5 and -8 mRNA expression in the small intestine. Although both 2.5 and 5% SC treatment caused weight and fat reduction to a similar extent, 2.5% SC was more effective at improving the metabolic profile. None of the tested SC doses caused any toxic effects. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that SC freeze-dried gut powder has the potential as a nutraceutical to target obesity and related disorders.

Acquired dietary habits and lifestyle behaviors of patients with schizophrenia may affect their life expectancy, disease complications and prognosis. The objectives of the current study were to assess the dietary habits and other lifestyle behaviors for Bahraini patients with schizophrenia, and to determine their associations with different medical comorbidities.

Musculoskeletal disorders and injuries are common causes of morbidity and loss of active, physically demanding training days in military populations. We evaluated the incidence, diagnosis, and risk factors of knee disorders and injuries in male Finnish military conscripts.

There is controversy regarding how comorbidity impacts on colorectal cancer screening, especially in the context of organised programmes. The aim of this study is to assess the effect of comorbidities on participation in the Barcelona population-based colorectal cancer screening programme (BCCSP).

The purpose of this study is to investigate placental ghrelin and leptin expression as well as cord blood ghrelin and adiponectin levels in maternal obesity and associations between placental ghrelin expression, cord blood ghrelin levels and maternal and infant variables.

Vascular risk factors have been associated with cognitive decline. Midlife exposure to these factors may be most important in conferring late-life risk of cognitive impairment.

This systematic review (PROSPERO: CRD42015025276) employs a realist approach to investigate the effect of "real-world" policies targeting different aspects of the food environment that shape individual and collective nutrition.

To evaluate circulating amino acids (AA) profiles in obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D) and metabolic syndrome (MetS).

First, to conduct a detailed exploration of the prospective relations between four commonly used anthropometric measures with incident diabetes and to examine their consistency across different population subgroups. Second, to compare the ability of each of the measures to predict five-year risk of diabetes.

Epigenetic regulators, including microRNAs (miRNAs), are implicated in type 2 diabetes, but evidence linking circulating miRNAs in pregnancy and risk of gestational diabetes (GDM) is sparse. Potential modifiers, including pre-pregnancy overweight/obesity and offspring sex, are unexamined. We hypothesized that circulating levels of early-mid-pregnancy (range 7-23weeks of gestation) candidate miRNAs are related to subsequent development of GDM. We also hypothesized that miRNA-GDM associations might vary by pre-pregnancy body-mass index (ppBMI) or offspring sex.

Bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS), is one of the most potent inducers of inflammatory signaling, yet it is abundant in the human gut and the modern diet. Small quantities of LPS routinely translocate from the gut lumen to the circulation (so-called metabolic endotoxaemia), and elevated plasma LPS concentrations are reported in a variety of chronic non-communicable diseases, including obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, atherosclerosis and type II diabetes. Murine models of experimentally-induced endotoxaemia and Toll-like receptor-4 deficiency suggest that endotoxin may promote the metabolic disturbances that underpin these diseases. However, as bioactive LPS is cleared rapidly from the circulation, and reported levels of endotoxin in human plasma vary widely, the potential relevance of metabolic endotoxaemia to human disease remains unclear. We here review insight into these questions gained from human and murine models of experimental endotoxaemia, focusing on the kinetics of LPS neutralization and its clearance from blood, the limitations of the widely used limulus assay and alternative methods for LPS quantitation. We conclude that although new methods for LPS measurement will be required to definitively quantify the extent of metabolic endotoxaemia in man, evidence from numerous approaches suggests that this molecule may play a key role in the development of diverse metabolic diseases.

Mental illness is often accompanied by poor physical health and shorter life expectancy. Second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are suspected of increasing cardiovascular risk, possibly through development of metabolic syndrome (MetS), and the risk of adverse outcome is even higher if obesity or metabolic aberration starts in childhood or adolescence.

The aardvark is popular in many zoological gardens in the European Union. These creatures are nocturnal, and aardvarks in the wild are known to walk distances of 4 km to 7 km per night. Despite what is known about their biology, most aardvarks are kept in zoological gardens in indoor enclosures with little space for movement. This lack of space leads to a tendency toward obesity and compromised welfare. With their wide distribution in Sub-Saharan Africa, aardvarks are perceived as thermophilic nonhuman animals. Nevertheless, some records suggest they may be able to adapt to colder climates and can be active outside their burrows when temperatures fall to 2°C. These findings suggest there may be a wild African population that is suitable for partial outdoor keeping under European climatic conditions. Therefore, a climate match was computed between the source area with aardvark occurrence and a target area of the European Union. Data revealed that the Free State, a South African province, was the area with the best climate similarity, and aardvarks from this area are recommended as suitable for the aforementioned purpose.

Epidemiological evidence implicates excess adipose tissue in increasing cancer risk. Despite a steeply rising global prevalence of obesity, how adiposity contributes to transformation (stage a non-tumorigenic cell undergoes to become malignant) is unknown. To determine the factors in adipose tissue that stimulate transformation, we used a novel ex vivo system of visceral adipose tissue (VAT)-condition medium-stimulated epithelial cell growth in soft agar. To extend this system in vivo, we used a murine lipectomy model of ultraviolet light B-induced, VAT-promoted skin tumor formation. We found that VAT from mice and obese human donors stimulated growth in soft agar of non-tumorigenic epithelial cells. The difference in VAT activity was associated with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) levels. Moreover, human and mouse VAT failed to stimulate growth in soft of agar in cells deficient in FGFR-1 (FGF2 receptor). We also demonstrated that circulating levels of FGF2 were associated with non-melanoma tumor formation in vivo. These data implicate FGF2 as a major factor VAT releases to transform epithelial cells-a novel, potential pathway of VAT-enhanced tumorigenesis. Strategies designed to deplete VAT stores of FGF2 or inhibit FGFR-1 in abdominally obese individuals may be important cancer prevention strategies as well as adjuvant therapies for improving outcomes.Oncogene advance online publication, 7 August 2017; doi:10.1038/onc.2017.278.

Human Milk (HM) is the best source for newborn nutrition until at least six months; it exerts anti-inflammatory and anti-infective functions, promotes immune system formation and supports organ development. Breastfeeding could also protect from obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, human colostrum (HC) presents a peculiar role in newborn support as a protective effect against allergic and chronic diseases, in addition to long-term metabolic benefits. In this review, we discuss the recent literature regarding "omics" technologies and growth factors (GF) in HC and the effects of pasteurization on its composition. Our aim was to provide new evidence in terms of transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and microbiomics, also in relation to maternal metabolic diseases and/or fetal anomalies and to underline the functions of GF. Since HC results are so precious, particularly for the vulnerable pre-terms category, we also discuss the importance of HM pasteurization to ensure donated HC even to neonates whose mothers are unable to provide. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first review analyzing in detail the molecular pattern, microbiota, bioactive factors, and dynamic profile of HC, finding clinical correlations of such mediators with their possible in vivo effects and with the consequent impact on neonatal outcomes.

Weight gain occurs commonly in young adults and increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Following on a previous report that two self-regulation interventions reduced weight gain relative to control, this study examines whether these interventions also benefit CVD risk factors.

To compare the individual and combined effects of dairy and endurance exercise training in reducing weight gain and adiposity in a rodent model of diet-induced obesity.

This study aimed to (1) compare the willingness to expend effort for rewards between young adults with healthy weight, overweight, and obesity; and (2) to examine how individual differences in the willingness to expend effort for rewards predict adherence to weight loss treatment.

The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of metabolic health across weight statuses and the associations of physical activity and sedentary time within and across metabolic health-weight status groups.

The focus of this edition of Clinical Pharmacolgoy & Therapeutics (CPT) is on drugs and renal function and will not include a detailed discussion of kidney disease and its treatment. It is well recognized that drugs affect the kidneys in different ways, while kidney disease impacts drug metabolism and response. It is impossible to underestimate the value of the kidneys to man in health and disease, from regulation of fluid and electrolyte balance to participating in drug metabolism and transport. Additionally, the kidneys serve as targets for drugs used to treat cardiovascular (CV) diseases including hypertension and heart failure, metabolic diseases such as diabetes mellitus and obesity, chronic kidney disease (CKD), as well as playing a role in the regulation of several hormones. Kidney damage may be distinguished from changes in kidney function using biomarkers, as discussed in some detail in this issue.

Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic cancer in the United States. It is typically diagnosed in postmenopausal women. However, given the increasing incidence of risk factors such as obesity and diabetes in younger women, it is becoming a more prevalent problem in this age group. When endometrial cancer is diagnosed in patients of reproductive age, the standard surgical option of hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy may not be ideal for women interested in future fertility. Hence, conservative options for select patients should be discussed along with the associated outcomes of each approach. A number of studies have shown that in patients with complex atypical endometrial hyperplasia and grade I endometrial carcinoma, a conservative approach is safe and feasible. The aim of this review is to summarize published evidence of fertility-sparing options such as hormonal therapy, hysteroscopic resection of focal lesions, and the role of intra-uterine devices. We will also provide the latest updates on ongoing prospective trials that explore strategies for conservative management in women with medical comorbidities or those interested in fertility preservation.

Research has shown that use of the third-person perspective to visualise a behaviour results in increased motivation to engage in the behaviour relative to the first-person perspective. This effect is claimed to operate in part because the third-person perspective leads the individual to "see the bigger picture", linking the visualised behaviour to broader goals and identities. Reasoning that this effect could be harnessed to encourage engaging in multiple behaviours that serve the same broader goal, the present study manipulated the visual perspective participants used to imagine themselves exercising, and assessed effects on cognitions and behaviour related to both exercising and healthy eating. Baseline exercise levels were measured and explored as a moderation effect. As predicted, it was found that for participants who engaged in more exercise at baseline, visualising exercise using the third-person perspective resulted in them reporting stronger intentions to exercise and taking more leaflets showing local exercise classes. For those who engaged in less exercise at baseline, there was no effect of perspective. In terms of eating, there was a main effect of perspective, such that participants who imagined themselves exercising using the third-person perspective ate significantly less chocolate than those who used the first-person perspective, irrespective of baseline exercise levels. These results suggest that use of third-person perspective visualisation can be used to encourage engagement in multiple behaviours that serve the same broad goal, which may serve as an intervention technique that will be especially helpful for health outcomes with multiple contributing behaviours, such as obesity and overweight.

Children residing in urban, low-resource neighborhoods may be at increased risk for poor aerobic fitness and obesity. The objective of this collaborative project with an urban public school district was to quantify the combination of poor aerobic capacity and high percent body fat using FITNESSGRAM® Healthy Fitness Zone (HFZ) standards among urban, predominantly Black, public elementary school boys and girls. Measurements of aerobic capacity with the 20-m Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run (PACER) test and body composition by bioelectrical impedance analysis were completed on 1,775 fourth and fifth grade students in 45 public elementary schools in St. Louis, Missouri during three school years (2012-2015). Our findings reveal that a higher proportion of girls than boys failed to meet the HFZ for aerobic capacity (70.1% vs. 42.3%), percent body fat (53.0% vs. 29.9%), and the combination of aerobic capacity and percent body fat (44.4% vs. 21.8%, all P<0.001). These results highlight the importance of addressing modifiable, lifestyle-related health risks among urban minority children, particularly girls.

Hemodynamics during dynamic exercise is finely regulated by some neural mechanisms. One of these mechanisms is the metabolic part of the exercise pressor reflex, i.e. the muscle metaboreflex. Hemodynamic response during the metaboreflex is characterised by the recruitment of the reserves in cardiac inotropism, pre-load, after-load and chronotropism. If one of these reserves is exhausted, then the cardiovascular response is achieved by recruiting one of the other reserves, thereby indicating a remarkable plasticity of the control of circulation. In this review, the effects of a number of cardiovascular diseases - such as heart failure, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, hypertension, type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity and metabolic syndrome - on hemodynamics during the metaboreflex are reviewed.

Psoriasis is a chronic and complex autoimmune inflammatory skin disease that affects over 125 million people worldwide. It can exhibit at any age, in spite of the fact that children are less normally influenced than adults. It is characterized by distinct erythematous plaques shielded with conspicuous silvery scales that shows up in different areas of the skin. Knowledge of pathophysiology, especially the pathogenesis of psoriasis, has significantly progressed in the recent decade. Advancement in molecular knowledge leads to better understanding of the disease, thus influencing the development of efficient treatment modalities. However, even with the availability of various options of treatment most of the efficient treatment modalities are costly. Expenses of health care bring about major financial weight to the patients as well as to health care systems. Thus, it was important to review the available current treatment options and those which are under development, in terms of efficacy, safety and cost to assist in selecting the most appropriate treatment for psoriasis patients.

Cardiometabolic risk (CMR) is a cluster of risk factors that may predict the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes mellitus. This study investigated the association between CMR with body mass index (BMI) among obese adults. The CMRs, including waist circumference, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, blood glucose, total cholesterol, low-density and high-density lipoprotein, triglyceride, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) level, were quantified in 82 obese adults. The findings indicate the highest correlation coefficient value ( r) was .618 between BMI and waist circumference; a weak correlation between mass index and systolic ( r = .276) and diastolic ( r = .311) blood pressure and hs-CRP ( r = .384); and a very weak correlation between BMI level and fasting blood glucose ( r = .069), total cholesterol ( r = .014), low-density lipoprotein (.013), high-density lipoprotein (-.154), and triglyceride (.173). Future strategies for CMR reduction among obese adults should focus on waist circumference and hs-CRP level.

Before adopting modern corn-and-grain-based western processed diets, circumpolar people had a high fat and protein subsistence diet and exhibited a low incidence of obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Some health benefits are attributable to a subsistence diet that is rich in omega-3 fatty acids and antioxidants. Pollution, both global and local, is a threat to wild foods, as it introduces contaminants into the food system. Northern indigenous people and their sled dogs are exposed to a variety of contaminants, including mercury, that accumulate in the fish and game that they consume. The sled dogs in Alaskan villages are maintained on the same subsistence foods as their human counterparts, primarily salmon, and therefore they can be used as a food systems model for researching the impact of changes in dietary components. In this study, the antioxidant status and mercury levels were measured for village sled dogs along the Yukon River. A reference kennel, maintained on a nutritionally balanced commercial diet, was also measured for comparison. Total antioxidant status was inversely correlated with the external stressor mercury.

Perivascular macrophages (PVM) are a distinct population of resident brain macrophages characterized by a close association with the cerebral vasculature. PVM migrate from the yolk sac into the brain early in development and, like microglia, are likely to be a self-renewing cell population that, in the normal state, is not replenished by circulating monocytes. Increasing evidence implicates PVM in several disease processes, ranging from brain infections and immune activation to regulation of the hypothalamic-adrenal axis and neurovascular-neurocognitive dysfunction in the setting of hypertension, Alzheimer disease pathology, or obesity. These effects involve crosstalk between PVM and cerebral endothelial cells, interaction with circulating immune cells, and/or production of reactive oxygen species. Overall, the available evidence supports the idea that PVM are a key component of the brain-resident immune system with broad implications for the pathogenesis of major brain diseases. A better understanding of the biology and pathobiology of PVM may lead to new insights and therapeutic strategies for a wide variety of brain diseases.

Obesity is a risk factor for colorectal neoplasia. We examined the influence of obesity and metabolic syndrome (MetS) on prevalence of neoplasia at screening colonoscopy.

The English NHS currently has a policy of providing Health Checks to all 40-74 year olds. Administered in primary care, they aim to identify patients at risk of a range of diseases, including diabetes and heart disease, and facilitate care. This study is the first to use observed data on the effectiveness of the Checks to consider whether they represent a cost-effective use of limited NHS resources.

Maternal obesity alters oocytes and subsequent fetal metabolism. An increasing number of studies have shown that the endoplasmic reticulums (ER) or mitochondria have important effects on oocyte quality, but there has been no study of the effect of mitochondria-associated ER membranes (MAMs) on oocyte quality. The present study was designed to assess whether the level of MAM and MAM-related proteins were different in oocytes from obese and control mice.

Obesity is the fastest growing health problem worldwide. Ethical issues linked to obesity are numerous and still under debate even in countries with a long history in obesity treatment.

Since a few studies exist on the association of neck circumference (NC) and obesity with blood pressure (BP) among adolescents in India, we found it highly relevant to measure the NC and body mass index (BMI) using them as indicators of upper body subcutaneous fat and obesity and relate them to BP in a rural and urban adolescent population in North Tamil Nadu.

The aim of this study was to explore a new classification way in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus based on complications and comorbidities using Latent Class Analysis, moreover, finding out the factors associated with different latent classes and making specific suggestions. In this study, 5,500 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus from ten hospitals in Tianjin, China were selected, and the response rate was 96.2%. Latent Class Analysis was used to cluster patients. After compared the baseline characteristics, multinomial logistic regression was applied. Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were classified into four classes. In the univariate analysis, all variables were significant (p<0.05). According to multinomial logistic regression, we found longer duration of type 2 diabetes mellitus, family history of diabetes, older age, obesity and central obesity, female menopause, living in a suburb, having a higher 2hPG at diagnosis, smoking and drinking were associated with the prevalence of complications and comorbidities. In conclusion, LCA was shown to be an effective method for grouping patients with T2DM, which presented a nuanced approach to data reduction. Further research using LCA may be especially useful to investigate causal relationships between complications and the significant factors identified in our study.

Today, obesity epidemic is one of the major health problems of the present century. One of the phenotypes of obesity is metabolically healthy obesity. It seems that these obese individuals suffer less from cardiovascular disease and metabolically unhealthy obesity. This study aimed to investigate the prevalence of metabolically healthy obesity (MHO) and its relationship with incidence of metabolic syndrome, diabetes and hypertension in individuals over 20 years in the city of Ahvaz.

In patients with type 2 diabetes and a high cardiovascular risk profile, the sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors empagliflozin and canagliflozin have been shown to lower cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Using real-world data from clinical practice, we aimed to compare cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in new users of SGLT2 inhibitors versus new users of other glucose-lowering drugs, in a population with a broad cardiovascular risk profile.

Misreporting is a major source of reporting bias in nutritional surveys. It can affect the analysis of associations between diet and disease. Although various methods have been proposed to identify misreporting, their application to infants and young children is difficult. We identify misreporting of energy intake in infants and young children and propose a simplified approach.

Low vitamin B12 and high folate during pregnancy are associated with visceral obesity and insulin resistance in offspring. In the general population, high folate exacerbates the increase of methylmalonic acid, a marker of vitamin B12 deficiency. However, the influence of vitamin B12 and folate and their related markers on insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome remains unknown in severe obesity.

The seroprevalence of hepatitis B (HB) and of potentially associated factors in Medellin, Colombia, were investigated 17years after the start of universal vaccination. Biological and sociodemographic data from a population survey with a multistage random sampling were analyzed in 6-64year old individuals. HB surface antigen, total HB core antibodies and HB surface antibodies, and in some cases IgM antibodies to HB core antigen, were tested in 2077 samples. Factors potentially associated with and natural, and vaccine immunity relative to susceptibility (absence of any marker) were analyzed using a multinomial logistic regression. The prevalence of serological patterns was: chronic infection 0.20% (95% CI 0.11-0.71), vaccine immunity 25.10% (95% CI 21.72-28.83) and natural immunity 2.60% (95% CI 1.80-3.74). No markers were detected in 71.30% (95% CI 67.70-74.83) of the individuals and evidence of recent infection was not detected. Relative to the absence of markers, natural immunity was potentially associated with age (6-17years and 41-64years) and sleeping less than 6 hours, while vaccine immunity was associated with age (6-17years), reporting vaccination against HB, belonging to high socioeconomic strata, home ownership and being obese, after adjusting for other variables. These results may be a population effect of mass vaccination. It is recommended to complete the vaccination schedule and to study in detail, persistence of antibodies and the role of obesity and socioeconomic strata in the vaccine immunity.

Obesity increases the risk for various cardiovascular problems. Increase in body mass index is often an independent risk factor for the development of elevated blood pressure and clustering of various cardiovascular risk factors.

Prophylaxis is considered the optimal treatment for persons with moderate to severe haemophilia (factor activity between 1-5% of normal and <1% of normal respectively) in countries where safe factor concentrates are available and economically feasible. Historically, prophylactic treatment has not been well studied in the haemophilia B (HB) population due to difficulties in obtaining a sufficiently large sample.

In recent years, the role of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in energy homeostasis through modulation of the digestion and absorption of carbohydrates and the production of incretin hormones is well recognized.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) have become the major public health challenges globally. Mitochondrial uncoupling, which reduces intracellular lipid loads and corrects the underlying cause of insulin resistance, has emerged as a promising anti-obese and anti-diabetic intervention. Niclosamide is an anthelmintic drug approved by the US FDA with the mechanism of action that uncouples mitochondria of parasitic worms. Recently, niclosamide ethanolamine salt (NEN) was found to be a safe and effective hepatic mitochondrial uncoupler for the prevention and treatment of obesity and T2D in mouse models. The striking features of NEN prompt us to examine the anti-obese and anti-diabetic efficacy of other salt forms of niclosamide, with the ultimate goal to identify a suitable salt formulation for future clinical development. Here, we report the study with niclosamide piperazine salt (NPP), another salt form of niclosamide with documented safety profile.

All providers who care for reproductive-aged women with cardiac disease should assess these patients' desires and plans for pregnancy at every encounter. For those considering pregnancy, preconception counseling, often performed by a maternal-fetal medicine specialist, can help patients understand the potential implications of pregnancy on their health and estimate the risks of an adverse cardiac event prior to conceiving. There are cardiac conditions, such as pulmonary hypertension and aortic stenosis, in which pregnancy may be contraindicated given the high morbidity and mortality; there are tools available to help quantify a patient's risk. Furthermore, some cardiac lesions may be inherited, which may warrant parental testing or a discussion of strategies to reduce the risk of an affected child, such as the use of assisted reproductive technologies. Preconception counseling is also important to identify other maternal risk factors, such as obesity, hypertension, and tobacco use, which are associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and develop a strategy to mitigate their potential risks, ideally before pregnancy. For women on medications for their heart disease or other comorbidities, a thorough review of these medications can potentially avoid an exposure to a teratogen during conception and pregnancy. Once pregnant, a patient's obstetrical provider and cardiologist should work together to outline a plan to monitor a patient's cardiac status as the normal physiologic changes of pregnancy, such as increased blood volume and cardiac output, may challenge a patient's functional status and increase the risk for an adverse outcome. Labor and delivery planning are essential to ensure patients with cardiac disease deliver at the appropriate hospital, equipped with the staff and resources to care for women with complex conditions. In summary, preconception counseling aims to stratify a patient's risk in pregnancy, inform patients of possible complications, and discuss strategies to best ensure a healthy mother and baby during pregnancy, labor, and delivery.

The rising prevalence of primary pediatric hypertension and its tracking into adult hypertension point to the importance of determining its pathogenesis to gain insights into its current and emerging management. Considering that the intricate control of BP is governed by a myriad of anatomical, molecular biological, biochemical, and physiological systems, multiple genes are likely to influence an individual's BP and susceptibility to develop hypertension. The long-term regulation of BP rests on renal and non-renal mechanisms. One renal mechanism relates to sodium transport. The impaired renal sodium handling in primary hypertension and salt sensitivity may be caused by aberrant counter-regulatory natriuretic and anti-natriuretic pathways. The sympathetic nervous and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems are examples of antinatriuretic pathways. An important counter-regulatory natriuretic pathway is afforded by the renal autocrine/paracrine dopamine system, aberrations of which are involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension, including that associated with obesity. We present updates on the complex interactions of these two systems with dietary salt intake in relation to obesity, insulin resistance, inflammation, and oxidative stress. We review how insults during pregnancy such as maternal and paternal malnutrition, glucocorticoid exposure, infection, placental insufficiency, and treatments during the neonatal period have long-lasting effects in the regulation of renal function and BP. Moreover, these effects have sex differences. There is a need for early diagnosis, frequent monitoring, and timely management due to increasing evidence of premature target organ damage. Large controlled studies are needed to evaluate the long-term consequences of the treatment of elevated BP during childhood, especially to establish the validity of the current definition and treatment of pediatric hypertension.

The global prevalence of obesity has risen significantly in recent decades. There is a pressing need to identify effective interventions to treat established obesity that can be delivered at scale. The aim of the Doctor Referral of Overweight People to a Low-Energy Treatment (DROPLET) study is to determine the clinical effectiveness, feasibility and acceptability of referral to a low-energy total diet replacement programme compared with usual weight management interventions in primary care.

Primary empty sella (PES) is characterized by the herniation of the subarachnoid space within the sella, which is often associated with variable degree of flattening of the pituitary gland in patients without previous pituitary pathologies. PES pathogenetic mechanism are not well known but seem due to a sellar diaphragm incompetence, associated to the occurrence of upper sellar or pituitary factors, as intracranial hypertension and change of pituitary volume. As PES represents in majority of cases a neuroradiological findings, without any clinical implication, the occurrence of endocrine, neurological and opthalmological symptoms, due to the above describes anatomical alteration, delineates the so called PES syndrome. Headache, irregular menses, overweight/obesity and visual disturbances compose the typical picture of PES syndrome and can be the manifestation of an intracranial hypertension, often associated with PES. Although hyperprolactinemia and growth hormone deficit represent the most common endocrine abnormalities, PES syndrome is characterized by heterogeneity both in clinical manifestation and hormonal alterations and can sometime reach severe extremes, as occurrence of papilledema, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and worsening of visual acuity. Consequently, a multidisciplinary approach, with the integration of endocrine, neurologic and ophthalmologic expertise, is strongly advocated and recommended for a properly diagnosis, management, treatment and follow-up of PES syndrome and of all related abnormalities.

Birth weight is a strong predictor of infant mortality, morbidity and later disease risk. Previous work from the 1980s indicated a shift in the UK towards heavier births; this descriptive analysis looks at more recent trends.

Obesity, smoking, uncontrolled diabetes, and poor dental health are modifiable risk factors for revision total joint arthroplasty. To protect patients from revision surgery while also reducing cost, some joint arthroplasty practices use these conditions as contraindications until they are improved. However, this practice is variable among joint arthroplasty surgeons. We hypothesize that a relatively high rate of revision arthroplasty patients had modifiable risk factors at the time of primary surgery.

The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) has increased in many Western countries, and is higher in men than women. Some risk factors for EAC have been identified-mainly gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), Barrett's esophagus, obesity, and tobacco smoking. It is not clear whether interventions to address these factors can reduce risk of EAC, although some evidence exists for smoking cessation. Although consumption of alcohol is not associated with EAC risk, other exposures, such as physical activity, nutrition, and medication use, require further study. Genetic variants have been associated with risk for EAC, but their overall contribution is low. Studies are needed to investigate associations between risk factors and the molecular subtypes of EAC. The prognosis for patients with EAC has slightly improved, but remains poor-screening and surveillance trials of high-risk individuals are needed.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is the most prevalent gastrointestinal disorder in the United States, and leads to substantial morbidity, though associated mortality is rare. The prevalence of GERD symptoms appeared to increase until 1999. Risk factors for complications of GERD include advanced age, male sex, white race, abdominal obesity, and tobacco use. Most patients with GERD presents with heartburn and effortless regurgitation. Coexistent dysphagia is considered an alarm symptom, prompting evaluation. There is substantial overlap between symptoms of GERD and those of eosinophilic esophagitis, functional dyspepsia, and gastroparesis, posing a challenge for patient management.

Gastric bypass has been thought to be associated with a risk of gastric cancer, particularly in Asia. Sleeve gastrectomy with duodenojejunal end-to-side anastomosis (SG-DJESA) was suggested to be a better-designed procedure to avoid this risk, and it also has other advantages.

To demonstrate the surgical management of adult acquired buried penis (AABP). Affected patients have poor sexual function, urinary dribbling with subsequent skin breakdown, mood disturbance, lichen sclerosus with subsequent urethral stricture, and poor quality of life. Previous efforts have described limited repairs including an isolated resection of the escutcheon, which unfortunately often leads to reburying. We present a more extensive surgical repair including escutcheonectomy, scrotoplasty, and penile split-thickness skin graft (STSG) to provide a durable definitive repair.

Examining the effectiveness of psychological interventions in treating secondary psychological outcomes of obesity has become prioritized in recent times. The objective of the present study was to compare an eight-week Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and Emotional Freedom Techniques (EFT) intervention program, in the treatment of food cravings and secondary psychological outcomes among overweight or obese adults (N = 83).

Tau is a microtubule-associated protein that becomes pathological when it undergoes hyperphosphorylation and aggregation as seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is mostly sporadic, with environmental, biological and/or genetic risks factors, interacting together to promote the disease. In the past decade, reports have suggested that obesity in midlife could be one of these risk factors. On the other hand, caloric restriction and physical exercise have been reported to reduce the incidence and outcome of obesity as well as AD.

The benefit of statin therapy in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease remains uncertain. Randomized trials have questioned the efficacy of the drug in improving outcomes for on-dialysis populations, and many patients with end-stage renal disease are not currently taking statins. This study aimed to investigate the impact of statin use on survival of patients with vascular access performed at a vascular center for chronic dialysis. Consecutive end-stage renal disease patients admitted for vascular access surgery in 2006 to 2013 were reviewed. Information on therapy was retrieved and patients on statins were compared to those who were not on statins. Primary endpoint was 5-year survival. Independent predictors of mortality were assessed with Cox regression analysis adjusting for covariates (ie, age, sex, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, cardiac disease, cerebrovascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, obesity, diabetes, and statins). Three hundred fifty-nine patients (230 males; mean age 68.9 ± 13.7 years) receiving 554 vascular accesses were analyzed: 127 (35.4%) were on statins. Use of statins was more frequent in patients with hypertension (89.8% v 81%; P = .034), hyperlipidemia (52.4% v 6.2%; P < .0001), coronary disease (54.1% v 42.6%; P = .043), diabetes (39.4% v 21.6%; P = .001), and obesity (11.6% v 2.0%; P < .0001). Mean follow-up was 35 months. Kaplan-Meier survival rates at 3 and 5 years were 84.4% and 75.9% for patients taking statins and 77.0% and 65.1% for those not taking statins (P = .18). Cox regression analysis selected statins therapy as the only independent negative predictor (odds ratio = 0.55; 95% confidence interval = 0.32-0.95; P = .032) of mortality, while age was an independent positive predictor (odds ratio = 1.05; 95% confidence interval = 1.03-1.08; P < .0001). Vascular access patency was comparable in statin takers and those not taking statins (P = .60). Use of statins might halve the risk of all-cause mortality at 5 years in adult patients with vascular access for chronic dialysis. Statins therapy should be considered in end-stage renal disease populations requiring dialysis access placement.

No standardized sedation protocol is available for flexible bronchoscopy (FB).

In the USA, Hispanics and African-Americans show elevated obesity, yet little is known about possible ethnic/racial differences in brain response during intake of palatable foods. To examine potential differences between non-Hispanic white (nHW) and racial/ethnic minority individuals, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess brain response to intake of eucaloric milkshakes that were either high-sugar or high-fat and a calorie-free, tasteless control solution. Our sample included healthy-weight adolescents who identified as African-American and/or Hispanic (minority, n = 27) and non-Hispanic white (nHW, n = 106). Minority participants showed elevated response in the pre-/postcentral gyrus, precuneus, and left thalamus in response to the high-sugar milkshake compared to high-fat milkshake. To confirm these effects were not driven by differences in body mass or a function of unequal cell sizes, we performed the same analyses in minority participants and a randomly selected subsample of nHW participants (n = 27) that were matched on BMI percentile. Similar to the full sample, we observed an elevated ventral posterior thalamic response to high-sugar milkshake in minority participants. This effect held after controlling for self-reported sugar and fat intake. These results suggest that African-American and Hispanic groups may have elevated response to specifically high-sugar foods in regions of the brain associated with sensory processing, providing novel information regarding the possible neural underpinnings of the disproportional risk for obesity seen in African-American and Hispanic populations.

Insights into physiological mechanisms responsible for weight loss after bariatric surgery (BS) have challenged the traditional view that mechanical restriction and caloric malabsorption are major drivers of weight loss and health benefits after BS. Altered diet selection with an increased postoperative preference for low-sugar and low-fat food has also been implicated as a potential mechanism beyond mere reduction of calorie intake. However, the empirical support for this phenomenon is not uniform and evidence is largely based on indirect measurements, such as self-reported food intake data, which are prone to inaccuracy due to their subjective character.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is defined as the concomitant disease process of obesity and at least two of the following variables: diabetes, hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia, or reduced high-density lipoprotein. These entities are well established as risk factors for complications following surgery. Obese patients are particularly prone to the development of MetS. The authors therefore aimed at elucidating the impact of MetS on the perioperative panniculectomy outcomes.

Given the rise in pediatric obesity, clarifications on the relationship between obesity and bone health and on the impact of structured intervention on this relationship are needed. This systematic review and meta-analysis investigated the effect of obesity on bone health and assessed the effect of structured intervention in children and adolescents with obesity. Medline complete, OVID, CINAHL, EMBASE and PubMed databases were searched for studies on obesity and bone health variables up to September 2016, then an update occurred in March 2016. Search items included obesity, childhood, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry and peripheral quantitative computed tomography. Twenty-three studies (14 cross-sectional and nine longitudinal) matched the inclusion criteria. Results from the meta-analysis (cross-sectional studies) confirmed that children and adolescents with obesity have higher bone content and density than their normal weight peers. Results from longitudinal studies remain inconclusive as only 50% of the included studies reported a positive effect of a structured intervention program on bone health. As such, the meta-analysis reported that structured intervention did not influence bone markers despite having beneficial effects on general health in youth with obesity.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated gastric carcinoma (EBVaGC) is a recently recognized disease entity defined by the presence of EBV in gastric carcinoma cells. EBV infection causes major epigenetic alterations in the EBV genome and its cellular host genome, suggesting that EBV acts as a direct epigenetic driver for EBVaGC. One of the major epigenetic events in the viral and cellular genomes to control transcription is DNA hypo- or hyper-methylation. Particularly, local and global hypermethylation have been reported in EBVaGC. It is therefore important to understand the molecular mechanisms of DNA hypermethylation during EBVaGC carcinogenesis. To understand the functional roles of DNA methylation and suggest therapeutic target candidates for EBVaGC, we reviewed recent literature reporting DNA hypermethylation in EBVaGC. We summarized the identified candidate genes that are markedly hypermethylated in EBVaGC, which can potentially be targets for chemotherapies with demethylating agents.

Objectives Globally, one-fifth of the world's children are stunted, however this statistic may be an underestimate as many countries lack comprehensive monitoring of height-for-age. Until a recent national health survey, Negara Brunei Darussalam has lacked the data to offer a comprehensive assessment of height-for-age among children. The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence of and factors associated with stunting among children aged 0-24 months in Negara Brunei Darussalam (Brunei). Methods A cross-sectional analyses of 396 children aged <24 months. Demographic, dietary and anthropometric measurements were recorded. Multivariate logistic regression was used to analyse factors associated with moderate stunting. Results Almost one-quarter of infants (24%) were stunted. Male children and children who were preterm (<37 weeks gestation) were more than twice as likely to be stunted as their counterparts, respectively (OR 2.48; 95% CI 1.49-4.12; OR 2.14; 95% CI 1.06-4.33, respectively). Those who were born low birth weight (<2.5 kg) were three times more likely to be stunted than those born normal birth weight (OR 2.99; 95% CI 1.44-6.17). Conclusions for Practice This study presents data on prevalence of stunting in Brunei based upon the World Health Organization's growth charts. In addition it is also the first time that the factors associated with stunting among infants aged <24 months have been examined in Brunei. The stunting prevalence in Brunei is of concern due to the reported short and long-term negative impact on health later in life. The authors recommend close monitoring of pregnant women who are at risk of delivering low birth weight infants and frequent monitoring of low birth weight infants in line with World Health Organization nutrition goals. Existing height-for-age data should be integrated into global databases.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are considered chronic inflammatory diseases. While early publications have reported the implication of innate immune cells such as macrophages to promote systemic inflammation and metabolic dysfunctions, recent publications underline the alterations of the T cell compartment in human obesity and type 2 diabetes. These recent findings are the focus of this review.

Diabetic complications affecting the kidneys, retina, nerves, and the cardiovasculature are the major causes of morbidity and mortality in diabetes. This paper aims to review the current understanding of the genetic basis of these complications, based on recent findings especially from genome-wide association studies.

Barrett's esophagus (BE) has been associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome. Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) may represent a surgical approach which addresses both severe obesity and BE. LRYGB diverts bile away from the gastric pouch and esophagus due to the long Roux limb, and very little acid is produced in the cardia-based gastric pouch. Furthermore, surgically induced weight loss may diminish systemic inflammation, which may contribute to metaplastic changes in the esophagus. Moreover, improved compliance with proton-pump inhibitor therapy, as a consequence of enrolling in a bariatric program, will decrease acid production further. Decreased duodeno-gastro-esophageal reflux should lead to decreased BE. In this study we examine the effect of LRYGB on regression of BE.

Obesity is an epidemic on the rise [1]. The number of bariatric procedures has increased worldwide. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is a valid therapeutic option, leading to a sustained weight loss with a low complication rate [2]. Situs viscerum inversus totalis (SIT) is the complete transposition of all the abdominal organs, occurring in about 1 in 10,000 people [3]. Laparoscopic approach in SIT is challenging due to the mirror image anatomy.

Peritoneal closure during laparoscopic trans-abdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) inguinal hernia repair has been the standard of care to prevent bowel obstruction due to adhesions generated by contact with mesh. However, with newer coated meshes, leaving the peritoneal layer open may be safe. While many studies compare methods of peritoneal flap closure, there is a deficit of literature reporting the outcomes of non-closure.

Bile acids (BAs) are post-prandial hormones that play an important role in glucose and lipid homeostasis as well as energy expenditure. Total and glycine-amidated BAs increase after sleeve gastrectomy (SG) and correlate to improved metabolic disease. No specific bile acid subtype has been shown conclusively to mediate the weight loss effect. Therefore, the objective of this study was to prospectively evaluate the comprehensive changes in meal-stimulated BAs after SG and determine if a specific change in the BA profile correlates to the early weight loss response.

Obesity-linked insulin resistance is mainly due to fatty acid overload in non-adipose tissues, particularly skeletal muscle and liver, where it results in high production of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial dysfunction. Accumulating evidence indicates that resistance and endurance training alone and in combination can counteract the harmful effects of obesity increasing insulin sensitivity, thus preventing diabetes. This review focuses the mechanisms underlying the exercise role in opposing skeletal muscle insulin resistance-linked metabolic dysfunction. It is apparent that exercise acts through two mechanisms: (1) it stimulates glucose transport by activating an insulin-independent pathway and (2) it protects against mitochondrial dysfunction-induced insulin resistance by increasing muscle antioxidant defenses and mitochondrial biogenesis. However, antioxidant supplementation combined with endurance training increases glucose transport in insulin-resistant skeletal muscle in an additive fashion only when antioxidants that are able to increase the expression of antioxidant enzymes and/or the activity of components of the insulin signaling pathway are used.

Different pathways likely underlie the association between early weight gain and cardiovascular disease risk. We examined whether birth weight for length relationship and weight gain up to 2 years of age are associated with lipid profiles and blood pressure (BP) in early adolescence and determined whether childhood adiposity mediates these associations.

Impulsivity is a personality trait that may be a risk factor for overweight and obesity. Increasing evidence suggests, however, that only specific facets of impulsivity are associated with eating- and weight-related variables. Moreover, there seem to be interactive effects such that eating-related self-regulation is low when more than one impulsivity facet is elevated. Finally, the effect of impulsivity on body weight appears to be indirect, that is, is mediated by eating behaviors. In the current study, 790 adults (83% female, 80% students) completed a short form of the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale and the Perceived Self-Regulatory Success in Dieting Scale online and reported their current height and weight. Scores on attentional and motor impulsivity were interactively associated with perceived self-regulatory success in weight regulation: Higher attentional impulsivity was associated with lower perceived self-regulatory success at high levels of motor impulsivity, but not at low levels of motor impulsivity. A moderated mediation model revealed an indirect effect of attentional impulsivity on body mass index (BMI) via perceived self-regulatory success in weight regulation at high, but not low levels of motor impulsivity. Non-planning impulsivity was unrelated to perceived self-regulatory success in weight regulation and BMI. Results support previous findings such that attentional and motor impulsivity are interactively associated with eating- and weight-related measures. Specifically, eating-related self-regulation is low when both attentional and motor impulsivity levels are high. Moreover, results further support that self-reported trait impulsivity is not directly related to BMI, but indirectly via eating behaviors as potential mediators.

Areca nut chewing has been shown to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, but its association with erectile dysfunction (ED) has not been investigated.

Racial disparities in childhood asthma prevalence increased after the 1990s. Obesity, which also varies by race/ethnicity, is an asthma risk factor but its contribution to asthma prevalence disparities is unknown.

The associations of occupational activity (OA), commuting, leisure-time physical activity (LTPA), and sitting with overweight/obesity in working adults are controversial. This study explored these factors with the risk of overall and abdominal overweight/obesity in a Chinese working population and whether these associations differ by gender.

Preclinical work suggests that the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) may represent a novel target to treat neuropsychiatric disorders, including alcohol use disorder and obesity. The goal of this first-in-man study was to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of GET 73 (PubChem SID: 329974174), a novel mGluR5 negative allosteric modulator. This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending dose, Phase I study conducted in healthy male volunteers in two experiments. GET 73 was administered as single ascending doses (N=48; Experiment 1; 10, 30, 100, 300, 450, 600-mg) or multiple ascending doses (N=32; Experiment 2; 100, 300, 450, 450-mg twice a day). Primary endpoints were the incidence of adverse events (AEs) among drug conditions and drug tolerability. The secondary endpoints were the PK parameters of GET 73 and its metabolite MET 2. Single GET 73 doses of up to 600-mg and repeated ascending doses of up to 450-mg twice/day were safe and well-tolerated. There were no serious or severe AEs. All AEs were mild or moderate in severity. Total GET 73 exposure increased with each increased GET 73 dose. A dose-related increase in mean maximum plasma drug concentration was observed after repeated dosing. Maximum plasma drug concentrations occurred between 0.5 and 2.05h after administration in all groups for both single and repeated doses. This first-in-human study indicates that GET 73, as single or multiple ascending doses, is safe and well-tolerated when administered to healthy male volunteers.

Mast cells are stimulatory factors in prognosis of various immunogenic and allergic diseases in human body. These cells play an important role in various immunological and metabolic diseases. The aim of present article is to explore the molecular targets to suppress the over expression of mast cells in obesity. The last 20 years literature were searched by various bibliographic data bases like Pubmed, google Scholar, Scopus and web of Science. The data were collected by keywords like "Mast Cell" "obesity" and "role of mast cell or role in obesity". Articles and their abstract were reviewed with a counting of 827 publications, in which 87 publications were considered for study and remaining was excluded because of its specificity to the subject. This review explains the characteristics, molecular targets and role of mast cells in obesity and existing research with mast cells to the area of metabolic diseases.

To evaluate, among the elderly, the association of self-rated health (SRH) with mortality, and to identify determinants of self-rating health as "at-least-good".

Despite their public health importance, little is known about associations between modifiable lifestyles, quality of life (QOL), and psychiatric symptoms in men. We investigated relationships between QOL, obesity, mobility and lifestyle in Australian men, including whether associations were mediated by anxiety and depression.

High sodium intake, whether via diet or drugs, augments cardiorenal risk. Regardless of its source, high sodium intake can both lead to hypertension and reduce the efficacy of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors, which are currently guideline-recommended treatments for hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and heart failure. Reducing sodium intake is therefore recommended to reduce the risk of adverse cardiorenal outcomes. An inverse relationship exists between sodium and potassium, with foods high in sodium being lower in potassium. Diets high in potassium have been associated with reducing hypertension and heart failure; however, optimal renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor dosing is often limited by hyperkalemia, which can lead to life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias and increased mortality. Potassium binders are effective at reducing potassium levels. Although some use sodium as the potassium exchange ion, thus increasing sodium intake, a new potassium binder uses another exchange ion and therefore does not increase sodium intake. When treatment options require agents that may precipitate hyperkalemia, particularly in patients at high cardiorenal risk, drugs that do not add to the sodium load may be preferred. A literature search was conducted using PubMed; search terms included potassium, sodium, hyperkalemia, potassium binders, and the literature search focused on manuscripts published more recently since 2000.

Obesity is a primary risk factor for many diseases such as certain cancers. In this study, we have developed three algorithms including a random-walk based method OBNet, a shortest-path based method OBsp and a direct-overlap method OBoverlap, to reveal obesity-disease connections at protein-interaction subnetworks corresponding to thousands of biological functions and pathways. Through literature mining, we also curated an obesity-associated disease list, by which we compared the methods. As a result, OBNet outperforms other two methods. OBNet can predict whether a disease is obesity-related based on its associated genes. Meanwhile, OBNet identifies extensive connections between obesity genes and genes associated with a few diseases at various functional modules and pathways. Using breast cancer and Type 2 diabetes as two examples, OBNet identifies meaningful genes that may play key roles in connecting obesity and the two diseases. For example, TGFB1 and VEGFA are inferred to be the top two key genes mediating obesity-breast cancer connection in modules associated with brain development. Finally, the top modules identified by OBNet in breast cancer significantly overlap with modules identified from TCGA breast cancer gene expression study, revealing the power of OBNet in identifying biological processes involved in the disease.

Somatic gene therapy is a promising approach for treating otherwise terminal or debilitating diseases. The human skin is a promising conduit for genetic engineering, as it is the largest and most accessible organ, epidermal autografts and tissue-engineered skin equivalents have been successfully deployed in clinical applications, and skin epidermal stem/progenitor cells for generating such grafts are easy to obtain and expand in vitro. Here, we develop skin grafts from mouse and human epidermal progenitors that were engineered by CRISPR-mediated genome editing to controllably release GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide 1), a critical incretin that regulates blood glucose homeostasis. GLP-1 induction from engineered mouse cells grafted onto immunocompetent hosts increased insulin secretion and reversed high-fat-diet-induced weight gain and insulin resistance. Taken together, these results highlight the clinical potential of developing long-lasting, safe, and versatile gene therapy approaches based on engineering epidermal progenitor cells.

The increasing prevalence of obesity and diabetes is an urgent worldwide health challenge. Now in Cell Stem Cell, Yue et al. (2017) report a proof-of-concept study using genetically engineered skin transplants that produce the incretin GLP-1 to prevent diet-induced obesity, suggesting a powerful approach for treating metabolic disorders.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease worldwide. Up to one third of individuals with NAFLD will develop non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is associated with progression to cirrhosis and is rapidly becoming the leading indication for liver transplantation. Sarcopenia is defined as a progressive and generalized loss of skeletal muscle mass, strength and function. It is seen in up to 60% of patients with end-stage liver disease and portends a poor prognosis. Recent studies have shown sarcopenia is a novel risk factor for developing NAFLD. Pathophysiological mechanisms relating sarcopenia and NASH may include insulin resistance (IR) and increased inflammation. IR leads to accumulation of triglycerides in both muscle tissue and the liver. It also exacerbates proteolysis and leads to muscle depletion. Chronic inflammation leads to liver injury and progression of fibrosis. The inflammatory milieu also stimulates protein catabolism. Viewing skeletal muscle as an endocrine organ that secretes various salutary myokines may help us understand its role in the development of steatosis. A better understanding of the pathophysiology will aid in developing physical and pharmacologic therapeutic interventions. In this review, we will explore the complex inter-relationships between sarcopenia and NASH. We will discuss the impact of sarcopenia in patients with NASH and therapeutic options for the management of sarcopenia. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Sterculia apetala (order: Malvales, family: Sterculiaceae) seed oil contains two cyclopropene fatty acids: sterculic and malvalic acid. Both positive and negative effects have been associated with the consumption of sterculic oil. In Mexico, S. apetala seeds are consumed after being boiled or roasted, used as chocolate flavoring, and utilized as animal fodder. Therefore, it is important to evaluate whether the consumption of this seed has a negative impact on the organism. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of administration of sterculic oil, during an 8-week period, on anxiety-like behavior and spontaneous locomotor activity in Zucker rats, analyzed through light/dark and open-field tests. The results showed that the consumption of sterculic oil decreased exploration latency in light/dark tests, which suggests an anxiolytic-like effect. Alterations in time spent on rearing and grooming were present in open-field tests, but this was not statistically significant, discarding nonspecific motor alterations. The alterations found in this study are possibly related to intrinsic obesity and metabolic complications present in the Zucker rat model, where leptin plays an important role in animal mood, more so than sterculic oil consumption.

In 2011-2012 approximately 26% of Australian children aged between 5-17 years were reported to be overweight or obese. Furthermore, the increase in prevalence of overweight and obesity among US children parallels reported increases in energy intake and portion sizes of common foods, leading to the recognition that availability of larger portion sizes contributes to the rise in overweight and obesity prevalence. Thus, the aim of this time-series analysis was to investigate whether selected food portion sizes in Australian children aged 2-16 years changed between 2007 and 2011-2012. Portion size data from 24-h recalls collected in Australian nutrition surveys were compared between 2007 and 2011-2012. Portion sizes changed significantly in 23% of items with increases in 15% and decreases in 8%. Changes in portion sizes varied by age, sex, and food group. Changes occurred for many meat-based items, energy-dense, nutrient-poor food items, breads, cereals, and some fruits and vegetables. Vegetable and fruit portion sizes were below the respective serving sizes of 75 g and 150 g in the Australian Guide to Healthy Eating, while portion sizes of some energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods have increased. These findings suggest approaches to increasing consumption of nutrient-dense core foods and reducing energy-dense, nutrient-poor food items in children are warranted.

Chronic low-grade inflammation is associated with obesity and diabetes. However, what causes and mediates chronic inflammation in metabolic disorders is not well understood. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mediates both infection-induced and sterile inflammation by recognizing pathogen-associated molecular patterns and endogenous molecules, respectively. Saturated fatty acids can activate TLR4, and TLR4-deficient mice were protected from high fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity and insulin resistance, suggesting that TLR4-mediated inflammation may cause metabolic dysfunction, such as obesity and insulin resistance.

The purpose of this investigation was to (i) assess the test-retest reliability and minimum difference (MD) values of air-displacement plethysmography (ADP) and the Siri 3-compartment (3-C) model in a mobile trailer, and (ii) identify any environmental fluctuations in the trailer.

The alarming prevalence of obesity is a serious global health issue affecting both adults and children that is projected to increase in the following decades. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

To investigate the effect of a high-fat diet and aerobic exercise intervention and its related mechanism on rat germ cell apoptosis. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into control group, high-fat diet group, control exercise group and high-fat exercise group. Rats were fed with high-fat diet or were given weight-free swimming. The levels of TG, TC, HDL, LDL and IL-6 in serum of rats were measured. The body weight, body length and inguinal fat weight were measured to calculate the Lee's index and lipid/body weight ratio. The expression of IL-6 mRNA in inguinal fat and IL-6R,Bcl-2 and Bax mRNA in testis was detected by RT-PCR. The morphological structure of testis was observed, and the Johnsen's ten-point score was calculated by HE staining, and the germ cell apoptosis was detected by TUNEL method. We got from the experimental results: a high-fat diet induces obesity and lipid metabolism disorder, alters testis morphological structure and increases germ cell apoptosis in rats. Aerobic exercise improves the lipid metabolism disorder and interferes with germ cell apoptosis by reducing interleukin-6 and interleukin-6 receptor expression.

To determine the factors associated with an increased risk for severe steatosis (SS) and establish the Homeostatic Model Assessment-Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) as a screening tool.

Colonic diverticulosis (CD) is related to advanced age and a lack of dietary fiber. Recently, several studies have shown that metabolic syndrome (MS) is also implicated in the etiopathogenesis of CD. This study aimed to assess the association between MS, obesity and CD.

We used the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2015 study results to explore the burden of high body mass index (BMI) in the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR).

Knowledge regarding the feasibility and safety of sleeve gastrectomy (SG) in obese liver transplant recipients is scarce. We report our experience of sleeve gastrectomy following liver transplantation (LT).

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progressive form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), are endemic in obesity. We aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and reproducibility of a simple intraoperative visual liver score to stratify the risk of NASH and NAFLD in obesity and determine the need for liver biopsy.

This study aims to compare the post-prandial curves of glucose, insulin, GLP-1, and GLP-2 among individuals with Crohn's disease (CD), obese individuals before and after bariatric surgery, and healthy controls.

The faith community provides an important access point for practice focused on population health at a time when health issues such as obesity and overweight are affecting large number of Americans. The purpose of this study was to examine faith community nurses' self-efficacy perceptions following a nutrition educational intervention. A convenience sample of 92 faith community nurses were randomly assigned to experimental and control groups. The t-distribution analysis revealed significant differences between the nutrition knowledge self-efficacy (p = .016) and nutrition counseling self-efficacy (p = .010) post-test scores for the experimental and control groups. This type of educational intervention provides a model to be used with faith community nurses as they integrate faith and health in this setting.

Obesity and dental caries are increasingly widespread pathologies. The former is growing so rapidly that the WHO classified its trend as an "epidemic". Both are triggered by a number of well known common etiologic factors sharing also the high added sugar amount since childhood. Because of its fermentation and pH lowering, dietary sugar allows the cariogenic bacteria to damage the tooth enamel provoking the carious lesions. WHO guidelines recommend reducing sugar intake to 10% of the total daily energy need, and highlight that there is evidence which suggests cuttingthis value down to 5% at least. The American guidelines addressing paediatric age put the limit to 25gr a day with a total ban on sugar in those aged 2 or less.

American Indians have a high prevalence of diabetes and higher incidence of stroke than that of whites and blacks in the U.S. Stroke risk prediction models based on data from American Indians would be of clinical and public health value.

Obesity is a global health crisis, and portion control is a key method for reducing excess body weight. Given consumers' familiarity with large portion sizes, reducing portion sizes can be difficult. Smaller plates are often recommended to reduce portion sizes and appear to reduce portion sizes. However, there are no studies evaluating dishes specifically designed to facilitate portion control. The aim of the present study was to validate the efficacy of a novel portion control plate inspired by the Ebbinghaus and Delboeuf visual illusions to promote serving smaller portions compared to a larger dinner plate.

We report a case of postoperative life threatening metabolic acidosis in a young Type-2 diabetic woman who had no history of diabetic ketoacidosis. The patient underwent a non-complicated laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass 6 days earlier. We discuss her clinical features, pathogenesis, management and outcome. We would like to make the surgical field aware of this potentially fatal diabetic complication since bariatric procedures are now indicated for the management of diabetic m'orbid obesity and Type-2 diabetes prevalence is on the rise, particularly in young individuals.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are toxic materials that cannot be broken down naturally and that easily accumulate in the body. Although several studies have attempted to uncover the effects of POPs on the endocrine and nervous systems and on cancer, few focus on the relationship between low-dose POPs and public health. Here, we attempt to determine the relationship between the level of POPs and common gastrointestinal symptoms, including abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, and constipation.

The Korean population is aging rapidly and the number of health threats is increasing. The elderly obese population is also increasing and this study aimed to evaluate the association between body mass index (BMI) and health-related quality of life in the elderly Korean population.

High levels of physical activity may prevent the development of obesity. However, the magnitude and direction of the association between physical activity (PA) of various intensities, sedentary time and weight status remain unclear. Thus, we examined whether objectively measured sedentary time and physical activity independently predict gain in body weight, change in body weight and to examine the possibility of reverse causation.

Metabolic function is regulated by the interplay of central and peripheral factors that ultimately regulate food intake and energy expenditure. The tachykinin substance P (SP) has been identified as a novel regulator of energy balance, however, the mechanisms underlying this effect are ill-defined and conflicting data regarding the role of SP on food intake have been reported by different groups.

Abdominal adiposity is associated with various risk factors including hypertension, and is therefore particularly relevant in patients with stable cerebrovascular disease (CeVD). A U-shaped relation between body-mass index (BMI, kg/m(2)) and cardiovascular events is often described. Whether this U-shape persists for abdominal adiposity, and consequently which reference values should guide clinical practice, is unclear. We described the relation between multiple adiposity measurements and risk of vascular events, vascular mortality, malignancy, and all-cause mortality in patients with clinically stable CeVD.

Longitudinal studies examining the potential mediating roles of birth weight and breastfeeding duration on the pathways between maternal gestational weight gain (GWG) and offspring anthropometric outcomes are lacking.

Excessive consumption of added sugars in the human diet has been associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes (T2D), coronary heart disease (CHD) and other elements of the metabolic syndrome. Recent studies have shown that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a critical pathway to metabolic syndrome. This model assesses the health and economic benefits of interventions aimed at reducing intake of added sugars.

Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (NASH-HCC) is a malignancy whose incidents is rapidly increasing. However, the mechanisms that drive development of HCC in a steatotic microenvironment remain unknown. Here we report that the obesity-associated protein JCAD is expressed at significantly higher levels in human NASH-HCC specimens compared to peri-carcinoma specimens. High JCAD expression was verified in multiple hepatoma cell lines. Forced overexpression of JCAD in hepatoma cells promoted tumor growth and proliferation; whereas JCAD silencing yielded opposite effects. JCAD interacted with the kinase domain of the tumor suppressor kinase LATS2, a core component of the Hippo signaling pathway. JCAD overexpression inhibited the ability of LATS2 to phosphorylate YAP in this pathway, in turn upregulating CCND1 and GLI2 to promote hepatoma cell proliferation. JCAD was induced by fatty acid overload in hepatic cells and was highly expressed in a mouse model of NASH-precarcinoma lesions, where the ratio of phospho-YAP to YAP was decreased. In human NASH-HCC specimens, JCAD expression and YAP phosphorylation patterns paralleled with the mouse model. Our findings illuminate a new role for JCAD and its critical interplay in the Hippo signaling cascade during the transition of NASH to HCC, with potential implications for therapeutic development in this setting.

Transthoracic (transapical and transaortic) access is inferior compared with femoral artery access. Percutaneous transcaval aortic access is a reasonable alternative approach that is being used in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) in patients with poor iliofemoral anatomy. Duplicated Inferior vena cava (DIVC) is an uncommon abnormality. We report the case of 76-year-old lady with history of severe peripheral vascular disease, morbid obesity, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia and duplicated IVC that had severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. The patient had diffuse bilateral iliac disease precluding the arterial access required for TAVR. Other comorbidities made transthoracic access less desirable. We report the first successful Transcaval TAVR in a patient with DIVC.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), typically manifested as snoring, is closely associated with obesity. However, the directionality of associations of OSA with cardiometabolic risk markers is unclear, as obesity increases risk for OSA, and OSA results in excess weight gain and its metabolic consequences. Less is known about how obesity and OSA may relate in children and adolescents and whether maternal OSA may influence the development of obesity and cardiometabolic dysfunction in offspring.

Latinos are at high risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Identifying behavioral factors associated with CVD risk in this population may provide novel targets for further research to reduce chronic disease disparities. Dysfunctional eating patterns (emotional eating [EE], uncontrolled eating [UE], and cognitive restraint of eating [CR]) may be associated with CVD risk but little is known about this relationship in Latinos.

Philadelphia passed a 1·5-cent-per-ounce sweetened beverage tax (SBT). Revenue will fund 10 000 quality pre-kindergarten slots for poor children. It is imperative to understand how revenue from SBT can be used to fund programmes to address education and other social determinants of health. The objective of the present study was to simulate quality pre-kindergarten attendance, educational achievement and sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption among Philadelphia children and adolescents under six intervention scenarios: (i) no intervention; (ii) 10 000 additional quality pre-kindergarten slots; (iii) a 1·5-cent-per-ounce SBT; (iv) expanded pre-kindergarten and 1·5-cent-per-ounce SBT; (v) a 3-cent-per-ounce SBT; and (vi) expanded pre-kindergarten and 3-cent-per-ounce SBT.

The objective was to evaluate cost-utility of bariatric surgery in Germany for a lifetime and 10-year horizon from a health care payer perspective.

As per the recent statistical reports of World Health Organisation (WHO), 13% of total global population is obese. Orlistat remains to be the only drug approved for the long term treatment of obesity. Recent findings highlighted severe adverse effects of orlistat that included hepatotoxicity, gall stones, kidney stones and acute pancreatitis. Therefore, search for new drug is required. The investigations based on endophytic natural products would prove pivotal in the global fight against this health issue.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) in young adults poses significant cardiovascular diseases (CVD) risk for later years. Parental history of CVDs is known to affect the prevalence of CVD risk in adulthood. In sub-Saharan Africa, the burden of MetS in young adults and its relationship with parental CVDs is largely unknown. We studied the gender-specific prevalence of MetS and its association with parental history of diabetes, hypertension and CVDs in young adults resident in urban Ghana.

Multi-level, longer-term obesity prevention interventions that focus on inequalities are scarce. Fun 'n healthy in Moreland! aimed to improve child adiposity, school policies and environments, parent engagement, health behaviours and child wellbeing.

With the discovery of insulin nearly a century ago, the diagnosis of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) transformed from a death sentence to a chronic medical condition. Despite the advances that have been made, the vast majority of those living with T1D still struggle to achieve targeted control. Yet, a plethora of agents have been developed to treat those with Type 2 Diabetes. Exploration of how these agents may benefit those with T1D has been an area of intense investigation, especially due to the overweight/obesity epidemic, which now afflicts more than 60% of those living with T1D. Areas covered: This review focuses on agents that have been utilized, including inhaled insulin preparations, pramlintide, metformin, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors, sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors, and dual SGLT1/2 inhibitors. Furthermore, with approval of the first hybrid closed loop (CL) system, the development of dual hormone CL systems is being explored. While the most common agent applied to these dual systems has been glucagon, research has been conducted to assess how some of the adjunctive therapies described above could aide with achieving postprandial glucose control while on CL insulin delivery. Expert opinion: By becoming less insulin-centric and incorporating some of these other agents, it is possible we may be able to better combat T1D.

<br>The preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus is involved in many physiological and behavioral processes thanks to its inter-connections to many brain areas and ability to respond to diverse humoral factors. One main function of the POA is to manage body temperature homeostasis, e.g. in response to ambient temperature change, which is achieved in part by controlling brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis. The POA is also importantly involved in modulating food intake in response to temperature change, thus making it relevant for body weight homeostasis and obesity research. POA function in body weight control is highly unexplored and a better understanding of POA circuits and their integration into classic hypothalamic circuits that regulate energy homeostasis is expected to provide new opportunities for the scientific basis and treatment of obesity and comorbidities.<br>.

Glucagon has plenty of effects via a specific glucagon receptor(GCGR) like elevating the blood glucose, improving fatty acids metabolism, energy expenditure and increasing lipolysis in adipose tissue. The most important role of glucagon is to regulate the blood glucose, but the emergent possibilities of hyperglycaemia is exist. Glucagon could also slightly activate glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor(GLP-1R), which lead to blood glucose lowering effect. This study aims to erase the likelihood of hyperglycaemia and to remain the inherent catabolic effects through improving GLP-1R activation and deteriorating GCGR activation so as to lower the bodyweight and show diabetes-protective effects. Firstly, twelve cysteine modified GLP-1/GCGR dual agonists were synthesized (1-12). Then, the GLP-1R/GCGR mediated activation and biological activity in normal ICR mice were comprehensively performed. Compounds substituted by cysteine at positions 22, 23 and 25 in glucagon were observed to be better regulators of the body weight and blood glucose. To prolong the half-lives of derivatives, various fatty side chain maleimides were modified to optimal glucagon analogues. Laurate maleimide conjugate 4d was the most potent. Administration of 1000 nmol/kg 4d once every two days for a month normalized adiposity and glucose tolerance in diet-induced obese (DIO) mice. Improvements in plasma metabolic parameters including insulin, leptin, and adiponectin were observed. These studies suggest that compound 4d behaves well in lowering body weight and maintaining energy expenditure without a chance of hyperglycaemia, 4d has strong clinical potential as an efficient GLP-1/GCGR agonist in the prevention and treatment of obesity and dyslipidemia.

Hypercholesterolemia confers susceptibility to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Both serum total cholesterol (TC) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) exhibit a strong genetic component (heritability estimates 0.41-0.50). However, a large part of this heritability cannot be explained by the variants identified in recent extensive genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on lipids. Our aim was to find genetic causes leading to high LDL-C levels and ultimately CVD in a large Austrian family presenting with what appears to be autosomal dominant inheritance for familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).

Environmental contaminants and medicinal plants can affect reproductive processes. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of maternal metabolic status on the response of mouse ovaries to the environmental contaminants benzene and xylene, as well as to extracts of the medicinal yucca plant. Ovaries isolated from normal-lean and slightly obese mice were cultured with or without 0.1% benzene or xylene for 24 h. Similarly, ovaries isolated from normal-lean, slightly obese, and significantly obese mice were cultured for 24 h with or without an extract of Yucca shildegera (YS, 10 µg/mL). We found that the metabolic status did not influence basal P4, T or IGF-I release, but obesity influenced the effects of environmental contaminants and YS. Benzene reduced P4 output only in ovaries from obese, but not normal-lean, mice; it also reduced IGF-I (but not T) release from ovaries irrespective of their metabolic status. Xylene dramatically increased P4 and T (but not IGF-I) release by ovaries from normal-lean mice, but there were no changes in P4 and only small increases in T output in obese mice. YS increased P4 (but not T or IGF-I) release in lean and slightly obese animal ovaries, whilst significant obesity was associated with a lack of P4 response to YS. Obesity might affect the basal ovarian release of T or IGF-I and increases the sensitivity of ovaries to the action of benzene, but decreases their responsiveness to xylene and YS.

To compare the performance of the natriuretic peptides (NPs) NT-proBNP and MR-proANP for the diagnosis of acute heart failure (AHF) in subsets of conditions potentially confounding the interpretation of NPs.

The purpose of the paper was to describe obesity-risk behaviors (diet, physical activity, and sedentary behavior) and examine the relationships of the obesity-risk behaviors with body mass index (BMI) in school-aged Korean American children.

Calorie intake is essential for regulating normal physiological processes and is fundamental to maintaining life. Indeed, both extremes of calorie intake result in increased morbidity and mortality. In this review, we discuss the effect of calorie intake on adult brain function, with emphasis on the beneficial effects of mild calorie restriction. Recent findings relating to the regenerative and protective effect of the gastrointestinal hormone, ghrelin, suggest that it may underlie the beneficial effects of calorie restriction. We discuss the putative cellular mechanisms underlying ghrelin-action and their possible role in supporting healthy brain ageing. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

To investigate the risk of vertigo in patients with sleep apnea.

Inflammation can promote the development of arthritis, obesity, cardiovascular, type II diabetes, pancreatitis, metabolic and neurodegenerative diseases, and certain types of cancer. Compounds isolated from plants have been practiced since ancient times for curing various ailments including inflammatory disorders and to support normal physiological functions. Curcumin (diferuloylmethane) is a yellow coloring agent, extracted from turmeric that has been used for the prevention and treatment of various inflammatory diseases. Numerous studies have shown that curcumin modulate multiple molecular targets and can be translated to the clinics for multiple therapeutic processes. There is compelling evidence that curcumin can block cell proliferation, invasion, and angiogenesis as well as reduced the prolonged survival of cancer cells. Curcumin mediates anti-inflammatory effect through downregulation of inflammatory cytokines, transcription factors, protein kinases, and enzymes that promote inflammation and development of chronic diseases. In addition, curcumin induces apoptosis through mitochondrial and receptor-mediated pathways by activating caspase cascades. Curcumin is a safe and nontoxic drug that has been reported to be well tolerated. Available clinical trials support the potential role of curcumin for treatment of various inflammatory disorders. However, curcumin's efficacy is hindered by poor absorption and low bioavailability, which limit its translation into clinics. This review outlines the potential pharmacological and clinical role of curcumin, which provide a gateway for the beneficial role of plant isolated compounds in treatment of various inflammatory diseases and cancer.

During the last decade, the obesity pandemia has skyrocketed, and the spectre is threatening children, adolescents and lower income families worldwide. Although driven by an increase in the consumption of ultra-processed edibles of poor nutritional value, the obesogenic changes in contemporary human lifestyle affect people differently, revealing that some individuals are more prone to developing increased adiposity. During the last years, we performed a variety of genetic, evolutionary, biochemical and behavioral experiments that allowed us to understand how a group of neurons present in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus regulate the expression of the proopiomelanocortin (Pomc) gene and induce satiety. We disentangled the neuronal transcriptional code of Pomc by identifying the cis-acting regulatory elements and primary transcription factors controlling hypothalamic Pomc expression and determined their functional importance in the regulation of food intake and adiposity. Altogether, our studies reviewed here shed light on the power and limitations of the mammalian central satiety pathways and may contribute to the development of individual and collective strategies to reduce the debilitating effects of the self-induced obesity pandemia. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors are used worldwide in the management of diabetes, but their role in the prevention or treatment of cardiovascular disorders has yet to be defined. We found that linagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, suppressed capillary rarefaction in the hearts of mice with dietary obesity. Metabolomic analysis performed with capillary electrophoresis/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) showed that linagliptin promoted favorable metabolic remodeling in cardiac tissue, which was characterized by high levels of citrulline and creatine. DNA microarray analysis revealed that the cardiac tissue level of early growth response protein 1 (EGR-1), which activates angiogenesis, was significantly reduced in untreated mice with dietary obesity, while this decrease was inhibited by administration of linagliptin. Mature fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) has a putative truncation site for DPP-4 at the NH2-terminal, and LC-MS/MS showed that recombinant DPP-4 protein cleaved the NH2-terminal dipeptides of mature FGF-2. Incubation of cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes with FGF-2 increased Egr1 expression, while it was suppressed by recombinant DPP-4 protein. Furthermore, vascular endothelial growth factor-A had a critical role in mediating FGF-2/EGR-1 signaling. In conclusion, pharmacological inhibition of DPP-4 suppressed capillary rarefaction and contributed to favorable remodeling of cardiac metabolism in mice with dietary obesity.

High fat diet-induced obesity is associated with inflammatory and oxidative signaling in macrophages that likely participates in metabolic and physiologic impairment. One key factor that could drive pathologic changes in macrophages is the pro-inflammatory, pro-oxidant enzyme NADPH oxidase. However, NADPH oxidase is a pleiotropic enzyme with both pathologic and physiologic functions, ruling out indiscriminant NADPH oxidase inhibition as a viable therapy. To determine if targeted inhibition of monocyte/macrophage NADPH oxidase could mitigate obesity pathology, we generated mice that lack the NADPH oxidase catalytic subunit NOX2 in myeloid lineage cells. C57Bl/6 control (NOX2-FL) and myeloid-deficient NOX2 (mNOX2-KO) mice were given high fat diet for 16 weeks, and subject to comprehensive metabolic, behavioral, and biochemical analyses. Data show that mNOX2-KO mice had lower body weight, delayed adiposity, attenuated visceral inflammation, and decreased macrophage infiltration and cell injury in visceral adipose relative to control NOX2-FL mice. Moreover, the effects of high fat diet on glucose regulation and circulating lipids were attenuated in mNOX2-KO mice. Finally, memory was impaired and markers of brain injury increased in NOX2-FL, but not mNOX2-KO mice. Collectively, these data indicate that NOX2 signaling in macrophages participates in the pathogenesis of obesity, and reinforce a key role for macrophage inflammation in diet-induced metabolic and neurologic decline. Development of macrophage/immune-specific NOX-based therapies could thus potentially be used to preserve metabolic and neurologic function in the context of obesity.

Several endocrine disruptors (including phthalates) are considered to be a cause of obesity. However, the current evidence has not conclusively established an association between phthalates and metabolic abnormalities, especially in children. The objective of the study was to evaluate the association between urinary phthalate metabolites and metabolic abnormalities in obese Thai children and adolescents.

Obesity is a complex and potentially deadly health concern; yet, there are few medications available to treat this chronic, recurrent disease. Patients are frequently told to "lose weight" and change their diet and exercise habits. For many, making behavioral lifestyle changes is not enough to enhance weight loss efforts and improve overall health and quality of life. Medication-assisted weight loss must be considered as an adjunct treatment to lifestyle changes, as neither alone may provide the sustainable reduction in weight necessary to decrease the medical and psychiatric comorbidities associated with obesity. Short- and long-term medications are available to assist patients in losing excess weight. These agents are safe when taken as prescribed and monitored by a health care professional and incorporated into a plan to create and sustain a healthy lifestyle. Weight loss medication is not a "quick fix" but rather a tool in the kit of resources to combat obesity and improve patients' quality of life. [Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services, 55(8), 21-26.

Despite the fact that the most effective treatment for morbid obesity today is gastric bypass surgery, some patients develop life-threatening nutritional complications associated with their weight loss.

In the last years, autophagy has been revealed as an essential pathway for multiple biological processes and physiological functions. As a catabolic route, autophagy regulation by nutrient availability has been evolutionarily conserved from yeast to mammals. On one hand, autophagy induction by starvation is associated with a significant loss in body weight in mice. Here, we demonstrate that both genetic and pharmacological inhibition of the autophagy process compromise weight loss induced by starvation. Moreover, autophagic potential also impacts on weight gain induced by distinct hypercaloric regimens. Atg4b-deficient mice, which show limited autophagic competence, exhibit a major increase in body weight in response to distinct obesity-associated metabolic challenges. This response is characterized by the presence of larger adipocytes in visceral fat tissue, increased hepatic steatosis, as well as reduced glucose tolerance and attenuated insulin responses. Similarly, autophagy-deficient mice are more vulnerable to experimentally induced type-I diabetes, showing an increased susceptibility to acute streptozotocin administration. Notably, pharmacological stimulation of autophagy in wild-type mice by spermidine reduced both weight gain and obesity-associated alterations upon hypercaloric regimens. Altogether, these results indicate that systemic autophagic activity influences the resilience of the organism to weight gain induced by high-calorie diets, as well as to the obesity-associated features of both type-1 and type-2 diabetes.

Leptin is an endocrine hormone that has a critical role in body weight homoeostasis and mediates its effects via the leptin receptor (LEPR). Common polymorphisms in the genes coding leptin receptors have been associated with metabolic abnormalities. We assessed the association of 28 LEPR polymorphisms with body mass index (BMI) and their relationship with obesity-related phenotypes, inflammation and cardiovascular disease risk biomarkers. A multicentre case-control study was conducted in 522 children (286 with obesity and 236 with normal-BMI). All anthropometric, metabolic factors and biomarkers were higher in children with obesity except apolipoprotein (Apo)-AI, cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), and adiponectin, which were lower in the obesity group; and glucose, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 that did not differ between groups. We identified the associations between rs11208659, rs11804091, rs10157275, rs9436303 and rs1627238, and BMI in the whole population, as well as the association of rs11804091, rs10157275, and rs1327118 with BMI in the female group, although only the rs11804091 remained associated after Bonferroni correction (p = 0.038). This single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) was also associated with insulin (p = 0.004), homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) (p = 0.006), quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI) (p = 0.005) and adiponectin (p = 0.046) after adjusting for age, Tanner stage and BMI. Our results show a sex-specific association between the rs11804091 and obesity suggesting an influence of this SNP on insulin resistance.

To assess the 10-year cardiovascular risk in middle-aged Chinese women living in the same community and the impact of reproductive aging and age.

Observational studies have reported a high prevalence of obesity and diabetes in subjects on methadone therapy, there are, however, limited data about metabolic syndrome. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and related factors in individuals with heroin use disorder on methadone therapy.

The relationship between exercise and long-term weight loss is definitive. However, in deconditioned individuals, the basis of that relationship beyond minimal energy expenditures is unclear. Effects emanating from exercise's proposed association with changes in emotional eating and its psychosocial correlates were tested.

We recently investigated the effect of ipragliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT-2I), in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes by a 24-week. SGLT-2Is also have an anti-obesity effect, and reduction of body fat has been demonstrated by indirect methods. However, evaluation of the effect on the total visceral fat volume and intrahepatic lipid content has not been performed.

Previously, it has been shown that obesity may be considered as a risk factor for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Leptin, a hormone whose level is elevated in obesity, has been suggested to be involved in the development of breast cancer, and univariate survival analyses have shown that over-expression of ACAT2, an enzyme that is involved in the production of cholesteryl esters, may be associated with a poor prognosis. Here, we aimed to investigate the effect of leptin on the proliferation, migration and invasion of breast cancer cells, as well as to elucidate its underlying mode of action.

Bariatric surgery is an effective treatment for youth with severe obesity. However, outcomes are variable and there remains sparse understanding of predictors of weight loss following surgery. The current study examines the role of adolescent-reported pre-operative social support around exercise, binge eating, and exercise to predict excess body mass index (EBMI) loss from 3 to 12 months post-surgery.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS), a multicomponent condition, is a cardiovascular disease predictor. Although exposure to agricultural pesticides has been suggested as a potential contributor to the rising rates of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and other features of metabolic disorders, no studies have focused on the association between consumption of organic food (produced without synthetic pesticides) and MetS. We aimed to investigate the cross-sectional association between organic food consumption and MetS in French adults to determine whether it would be worth conducting further studies, particularly large prospective and randomised trials.

Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease arising from the destruction of pancreatic insulin-producing beta cells. The disease represents a continuum, progressing sequentially at variable rates through identifiable stages prior to the onset of symptoms, through diagnosis and into the critical periods that follow, culminating in a variable depth of beta cell depletion. The ability to identify the very earliest of these presymptomatic stages has provided a setting in which prevention strategies can be trialled, as well as furnishing an unprecedented opportunity to study disease evolution, including intrinsic and extrinsic initiators and drivers. This niche opportunity is occupied by Type 1 Diabetes TrialNet, an international consortium of clinical trial centres that leads the field in intervention and prevention studies, accompanied by deep longitudinal bio-sampling. In this review, we focus on discoveries arising from this unique bioresource, comprising more than 70,000 samples, and outline the processes and science that have led to new biomarkers and mechanistic insights, as well as identifying new challenges and opportunities. We conclude that via integration of clinical trials and mechanistic studies, drawing in clinicians and scientists and developing partnership with industry, TrialNet embodies an enviable and unique working model for understanding a disease that to date has no cure and for designing new therapeutic approaches.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is considered to be a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. However, as FGF21 levels are elevated in obese and diabetic conditions we aimed to test if exogenous FGF21 is sufficient to prevent diabetes and beta cell loss in New Zealand obese (NZO) mice, a model for polygenetic obesity and type 2 diabetes.

Mitochondria are important regulators of the metabolic phenotype in type 2 diabetes. A key factor in mitochondrial physiology is the H(+)-ATP synthase. The expression and activity of its physiological inhibitor, ATPase inhibitory factor 1 (IF1), controls tissue homeostasis, metabolic reprogramming and signalling. We aimed to characterise the putative role of IF1 in mediating skeletal muscle metabolism in obesity and diabetes.

Many individuals with short bowel syndrome (SBS) require long-term parenteral nutrition (PN) to maintain adequate nutritional status. Herein, we report a successful intestinal adaptation of a patient with SBS through 13 times intensive nutritional support team (NST) managements. A thirty-five-year-old woman who could not eat due to intestinal discontinuity visited Seoul National University Hospital for reconstruction of the bowel. She received laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) due to morbid obesity in Jan 2013 at a certain hospital and successfully reduced her weight from 110 kg to 68 kg. However, after a delivery of the second baby by cesarean section in Jul 2016, most of small bowel was herniated through Peterson's defect, and emergent massive small bowel resection was performed. Thereafter, she visited our hospital for the purpose of intestinal reconstruction. In Sep 2016, she received side-to-side gastrogastrostomy and revision of double barrel enterostomy. The remaining small bowel included whole duodenum, 30 cm of proximal jejunum, and 10 cm of terminal ileum. Pylorus and ileocecal valves were intact. The patient given only PN after surgery was provided rice-based soft fluid diet after 10 day of operation. Through intensive nutritional management care, she could start solid meals, and finally stop the PN and eat only orally at 45 days postoperatively. Three nutritional interventions were conducted over 2 months after the patient was discharged. She did not require PN during this period, and maintained her weight within the normal weight range. Similar interventions could be used for other patients with malabsorption problems similar to SBS.

This study was performed to investigate the effect of gastric banding surgery on the improvement of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of morbidly obese (MO) patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with the consideration that obesity was associated with insulin resistance and T2DM. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 38 MO with T2DM patients and 50 MO patients. Pre-surgery and post-surgery data were analyzed a year later. The medical data from these patients, including sex, age, height, weight, body composition, HbA1c, triglyceride, total cholesterol, aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine transaminase (ALT) were measured. There were significant reductions of body weight and body mass index (BMI), body fat, body fat percentage, waist-hip ratio, visceral fat, and obesity in each group before and after gastric banding surgery. Results of AST, ALT, and HbA1c had significant reductions in each group. For HbA1c, treatment rate was 71% in the MO group with T2DM with significant reduction of 22.8%. It is thought that a gastric banding surgery is one of the breakthrough methods not only for weight loss but also for the prevention of complication of the obese patients with T2DM. Thus, gastric banding surgery could be effective in controlling HbA1c in obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

The German Shepherd Dog (GSD) has been widely used for a variety of working roles. However, concerns for the health and welfare of the GSD have been widely aired and there is evidence that breed numbers are now in decline in the UK. Accurate demographic and disorder data could assist with breeding and clinical prioritisation. The VetCompass(TM) Programme collects clinical data on dogs under primary veterinary care in the UK. This study included all VetCompass(TM) dogs under veterinary care during 2013. Demographic, mortality and clinical diagnosis data on GSDs were extracted and reported.

There is a well-recognised relationship between body weight, plantar pressures and foot pain, but the temporal association between these factors is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between increasing weight, plantar pressures and foot pain over a two-year period.

Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a major unmet medical need that is characterized by the presence of multiple cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular comorbidities. Foremost among these comorbidities are obesity and diabetes, which are not only risk factors for the development of HFpEF, but worsen symptoms and outcome. Coronary microvascular inflammation with endothelial dysfunction is a common denominator among HFpEF, obesity, and diabetes that likely explains at least in part the etiology of HFpEF and its synergistic relationship with obesity and diabetes. Thus, pharmacological strategies to supplement nitric oxide and subsequent cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-protein kinase G (PKG) signaling may have therapeutic promise. Other potential approaches include exercise and lifestyle modifications, as well as targeting endothelial cell mineralocorticoid receptors, non-coding RNAs, sodium glucose transporter 2 inhibitors, and enhancers of natriuretic peptide protective NO-independent cGMP-initiated and alternative signaling, such as LCZ696 and phosphodiesterase-9 inhibitors. Additionally, understanding the role of adipokines in HFpEF may lead to new treatments. Identifying novel drug targets based on the shared underlying microvascular disease process may improve the quality of life and lifespan of those afflicted with both HFpEF and obesity or diabetes, or even prevent its occurrence.

Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) modifies the upper gastrointestinal tract motility. Controversial data currently exist. The aim of the study was to evaluate esophageal motility before and after LSG.

Zonulin (ZO), a new diagnostic biomarker of intestinal permeability, was tested in newborns presenting symptoms of infection and/or inflammation of the gut or being at risk of intestinal pathology.

Blood monocytes are expanded during obesity. However, the differential contribution of monocytes subsets in obesity-related metabolic disorders remains unknown. The aim of the study was to define the role of the Gr1(low) monocytes subset upon high-fat-diet (HFD).

Acute exercise does not elicit compensatory changes in appetite parameters in lean individuals; however, less is known about responses in overweight individuals. This study compared the acute effects of moderate-intensity exercise on appetite, energy intake and appetite-regulatory hormones in lean and overweight/obese individuals.

Inflammatory factors derived from adipose tissue have been implicated in mediating insulin resistance in obesity. We sought to identify these using explanted human adipose tissue exposed to innate and adaptive immune stimuli.

Interleukin 6 receptor (IL-6R), mediating IL-6's biological functions, plays an important role in different diseases such as diabetes, obesity and cardio-vascular diseases. In this study, we investigated the effects of two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), within the IL-6R loci, previously associated with C-reactive protein (CRP) and coronary heart diseases risk, and with controversial effects on lipids traits: SNP rs4845625 and SNP rs4537545. The results showed that both investigated SNPs were antagonistically related with CRP levels; the minor rs4845625*T allele was associated with increased CRP levels (P-value=0.011), while the minor rs4537545*T allele was associated with decreased CRP levels (P-value=0.009). Interestingly, the minor rs4845625*T allele was significantly associated with higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and ApoB levels (P=0.007 and P=0.009 respectively). Haplotype analysis showed that the TC haplotype, having the minor rs4845625*T allele, was related simultaneously with increased levels of CRP, LDL-C and ApoB levels, thus could be considered as a risk factor. Our investigation detects for the first time an independent effect of rs4845625 on LDL-C and ApoB traits, explaining an important range of those traits variability (3.49 and 5.57% respectively). Our findings might be of high clinical significance in pharmacogenomics studies of tocilizumab for which IL-6R is target.Genes and Immunity advance online publication, 27 July 2017; doi:10.1038/gene.2017.16.

The lack of response to leptin's actions in the brain, "leptin resistance," is one of the main causes of the pathogenesis of obesity. However, although high-fat diets affect sensitivity to leptin, the underlying mechanisms of leptin resistance are still an enigma. Here we examined the effect of excess saturated fatty acids (SFAs) on leptin signaling in human neuronal cells. Palmitate, the principle source of SFAs in diet, induced leptin resistance in a human neuroblastoma cell line stably transfected with the Ob-Rb leptin receptor (SH-SY5Y-ObRb). We next investigated the function of stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), an enzyme which converts SFAs into monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), on leptin-induced signaling. We found that reduction of SCD1 activity, through SCD1 inhibition and knockdown, impairs leptin-induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation in human neuronal cells. Our findings suggested that SCD1 plays a key role in the pathophysiology of leptin resistance in neuronal cells associated with obesity.

Food intake is guided by homeostatic needs and by the reward value of food, yet the exact relation between the two remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of different metabolic states and hormonal satiety signaling on responses in neural reward networks.

With the increase in obesity worldwide, its associated comorbidities, including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), have become a public health problem that still lacks effective therapy. We have previously reported that mixed-lineage kinase 3-deficient (MLK3-deficient) mice are protected against diet-induced NASH. Given the critical need to identify new therapeutic agents, we sought to examine whether the small-molecule MLK3 inhibitor URMC099 would be effective in reversing diet-induced murine NASH. C57BL/6J mice were fed either a diet high in saturated fat, fructose, and cholesterol (FFC), or a chow diet for 24 weeks. Mice were treated with either URMC099 (10 mg/kg) twice daily by intraperitoneal injection or its vehicle during the last 2 weeks of the feeding study. FFC-fed mice receiving URMC099 had similar body weight, caloric intake, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance, metabolic phenotype, and hepatic steatosis compared with vehicle-treated mice. Furthermore, FFC-fed mice treated with URMC099 had less hepatic macrophage infiltration, activation, and proinflammatory polarization, as well as less liver injury and fibrosis when compared with vehicle-treated mice. In conclusion, URMC099 is well tolerated in mice without obvious toxicities and appears to be efficacious in reversing diet-induced NASH. Hence, URMC099 may serve as a therapeutic agent in human NASH.

Background: Fat-enriched diets produce metabolic changes in skeletal muscle, which in turn can mediate changes in gene regulation.Objective: We examined the high-fat-diet-induced changes in skeletal muscle gene expression by characterizing variations in pre-mRNA alternative splicing.Methods: Affymetrix Exon Array analysis was performed on the transcriptome of the gastrocnemius/plantaris complex of male obesity-prone Sprague-Dawley rats fed a 10% or 60% fat (lard) diet for 2 or 8 wk. The validation of exon array results was focused on troponin T (Tnnt3). Tnnt3 splice form analyses were extended in studies of rats fed 10% or 30% fat diets across 1- to 8-wk treatment periods and rats fed 10% or 45% fat diets with fat sources from lard or mono- or polyunsaturated fats for 2 wk. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) was used to measure body composition.Results: Consumption of a 60% fat diet for 2 or 8 wk resulted in alternative splicing of 668 and 726 pre-mRNAs, respectively, compared with rats fed a 10% fat diet. Tnnt3 transcripts were alternatively spliced in rats fed a 60% fat diet for either 2 or 8 wk. The high-fat-diet-induced changes in Tnnt3 alternative splicing were observed in rats fed a 30% fat diet across 1- to 8-wk treatment periods. Moreover, this effect depended on fat type, because Tnnt3 alternative splicing occurred in response to 45% fat diets enriched with lard but not in response to diets enriched with mono- or polyunsaturated fatty acids. Fat mass (a proxy for obesity as measured by NMR) did not differ between groups in any study.Conclusions: Rat skeletal muscle responds to overconsumption of dietary fat by modifying gene expression through pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Variations in Tnnt3 alternative splicing occur independently of obesity and are dependent on dietary fat quantity and suggest a role for saturated fatty acids in the high-fat-diet-induced modifications in Tnnt3 alternative splicing.

In the United States, approximately one-third of adolescents are now overweight or obese, and one in six is obese. This financial cost and the larger nonfinancial costs of obesity make obesity prevention and management for adolescents imperative for the health of the nation. However, primary care visits are typically brief, and primary care providers may lack adequate resources to help overweight or obese adolescents to manage weight issues. To augment the efficacy of primary care visits for adolescent weight management, mobile phone technology can be used as an adjunct treatment that provides additional opportunities for encouraging improvement in lifestyle, attainment, and maintenance of healthy weight.

The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) in the United States provides free supplemental food and nutrition education to low-income mothers and children under age 5 years. Childhood obesity prevalence is higher among preschool children in the WIC program compared to other children, and WIC improves dietary quality among low-income children. The Children Eating Well (CHEW) smartphone app was developed in English and Spanish for WIC-participating families with preschool-aged children as a home-based intervention to reinforce WIC nutrition education and help prevent childhood obesity.

To test whether exposure to violence is associated with same-day increases in obesogenic behaviors among young adolescents, including unhealthy food and beverage consumption, poor quality sleep, and lack of physical activity.

Intrauterine growth restriction in late pregnancy can contribute to adverse long-term metabolic health in the offspring. In the present study we used an animal (sheep) model of maternal dietary manipulation in late pregnancy, combined with exposure of the offspring to a low-activity, obesogenic environment after weaning, to characterise the effects on glucose homeostasis. Dizygotic twin-pregnant sheep were either fed to 60% of requirements (nutrient restriction (R)) or fed ad libitum (~140% of requirements (A)) from 110 days gestation until term (~147 days). After weaning (~3 months of age), the offspring were kept in either a standard (in order to remain lean) or low-activity, obesogenic environment. R mothers gained less weight and produced smaller offspring. As adults, obese offspring were heavier and fatter with reduced glucose tolerance, regardless of maternal diet. Molecular markers of stress and autophagy in liver and adipose tissue were increased with obesity, with gene expression of hepatic glucose-related protein 78 (Grp78) and omental activation transcription factor 6 (Atf6), Grp78 and ER stress degradation enhancer molecule 1 (Edem1) only being increased in R offspring. In conclusion, the adverse effect of juvenile-onset obesity on insulin-responsive tissues can be amplified by previous exposure to a suboptimal nutritional environment in utero, thereby contributing to earlier onset of insulin resistance.

The US ranks ninth in obesity in the world, and approximately 7% of US adults experience major depressive disorder. Social isolation due to the stigma attached to obesity might trigger depression.

Quetelet reported in the nineteenth century that body weight varies across adults with the square of height. Quetelet's index, now known as BMI, is accepted by most health organizations as a first-level measure of body fat and as a screening tool for diagnosing excess adiposity. Modern imaging methods now, however, indicate that BMI has limited predictive value for estimating body fat and lean mass at the individual level. The use of BMI as a measure of body composition in the clinical setting should therefore be challenged.

To compare short- and long-term outcomes of intracorporeal anastomosis (IA) versus extracorporeal anastomosis (EA) in obese (body mass index >30 kg/m2) patients.

Obesity and dyslipidemia are frequently treated with dietary interventions before pharmacotherapy is given. Diets high in unsaturated fat have proven advantageous to disease treatment.

We examined the effect of Bone Morphogenetic Protein 4 (BMP4) on energy expenditure in adult mature mice by targeting the liver with adeno-associated viral (AAV) BMP4 vectors to increase circulating levels. We verified the direct effect of BMP4 in inducing a brown oxidative phenotype in differentiating preadipocytes in vitro. AAV-BMP4-treated mice display marked browning of subcutaneous adipocytes, with increased mitochondria and Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1). These mice are protected from obesity on a high-fat diet and have increased whole-body energy expenditure, improved insulin sensitivity, reduced liver fat, and reduced adipose tissue inflammation. On a control diet, they show unchanged body weight but improved insulin sensitivity. In contrast, AAV-BMP4-treated mice showed beiging of BAT with reduced UCP1, increased lipids, and reduced hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL). Thus, BMP4 exerts different effects on WAT and BAT, but the overall effect is to enhance insulin sensitivity and whole-body energy expenditure by browning subcutaneous adipose tissue.

Brown adipose tissue (BAT)-dependent thermogenesis and its suggested augmenting hormone, FGF21, are potential therapeutic targets in current obesity and diabetes research. Here, we studied the role of UCP1 and FGF21 for metabolic homeostasis in the cold and dissected underlying molecular mechanisms using UCP1-FGF21 double-knockout mice. We report that neither UCP1 nor FGF21, nor even compensatory increases of FGF21 serum levels in UCP1 knockout mice, are required for defense of body temperature or for maintenance of energy metabolism and body weight. Remarkably, cold-induced browning of inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) is FGF21 independent. Global RNA sequencing reveals major changes in response to UCP1- but not FGF21-ablation in BAT, iWAT, and muscle. Markers of mitochondrial failure and inflammation are observed in BAT, but in particular the enhanced metabolic reprogramming in iWAT supports the thermogenic role of UCP1 and excludes an important thermogenic role of endogenous FGF21 in normal cold acclimation.

Beige adipocytes can interconvert between white and brown-like states and switch between energy storage versus expenditure. Here we report that beige adipocyte plasticity is important for feeding-associated changes in energy expenditure and is coordinated by the hypothalamus and the phosphatase TCPTP. A fasting-induced and glucocorticoid-mediated induction of TCPTP, inhibited insulin signaling in AgRP/NPY neurons, repressed the browning of white fat and decreased energy expenditure. Conversely feeding reduced hypothalamic TCPTP, to increase AgRP/NPY neuronal insulin signaling, white adipose tissue browning and energy expenditure. The feeding-induced repression of hypothalamic TCPTP was defective in obesity. Mice lacking TCPTP in AgRP/NPY neurons were resistant to diet-induced obesity and had increased beige fat activity and energy expenditure. The deletion of hypothalamic TCPTP in obesity restored feeding-induced browning and increased energy expenditure to promote weight loss. Our studies define a hypothalamic switch that coordinates energy expenditure with feeding for the maintenance of energy balance.

Unimolecular dual incretins derived from hybridized glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) sequences have demonstrated synergistic reduction of adiposity in animal models and reductions of hyperglycemia in short-duration human trials. Here, we extend the characterization of NNC0090-2746 (also known as RG7697), a fatty-acylated dual agonist possessing in vitro balanced GIPR and GLP-1R agonism. In this 12-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind phase 2a trial, patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin received 1.8 mg of NNC0090-2746 or placebo subcutaneously once daily. Liraglutide 1.8 mg (Victoza), starting with 2-week dose escalation, was administered subcutaneously once daily as an open-label reference arm. Measurements were collected at regular intervals after randomization. NNC0090-2746 significantly improved glycemic control and reduced body weight compared with placebo. Total cholesterol, alone among a range of lipid parameters, and leptin were both significantly reduced compared with placebo. Treatment with NNC0090-2746 was generally safe and well tolerated.

The macromolecular mechanics of GLP-1 with its cell surface receptor came into focus as two landmark publications recently published in Nature collectively herald advancement in structure-based design for a receptor class of great therapeutic importance (Jazayeri et al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2017).

The rise of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a hallmark of menopause associated with osteoporosis and visceral adiposity. In Nature, Zaidi and colleagues (Liu et al., 2017) report that blocking FSH action reduces body fat by promoting brown/beige fat thermogenesis, potentially providing a new intervention for the treatment of menopause-related metabolic diseases.

Plasma mannose levels are elevated in subjects with insulin resistance independently of obesity. Here, we found that elevated plasma mannose levels are strong markers of future risk of several chronic diseases including T2D, CVD, and albuminuria, and that it may contribute to their development rather than just being a novel biomarker.

The combined effect of obesity and asthma may lead to significant impairment of quality of life (QOL). The aim here was to evaluate the prevalence of asthma among obese individuals, characterize the severity of impairment of quality of life and measure its relationship with pulmonary function.

The study analyzes national strategies for dealing with obesity in Brazil in the framework of the Brazilian Unified National Health System (SUS) and the Food and Nutritional Security System (SISAN). Based on the document analysis method, we examined government documents produced in the last 15 years in the following dimensions: definitions of obesity, proposed actions, and strategies for linkage between sectors. In the SUS, obesity is approached as both a risk factor and a disease, with individual and social/environmental approaches aimed at changing eating practices and physical activity. In the SISAN, obesity is also conceived as a social problem involving food insecurity, and new modes of producing, marketing, and consuming foods are proposed to change eating practices in an integrated way. Proposals in the SUS point to an integrated and intra-sector approach to obesity, while those in SISAN emphasize the problem's inter-sector nature from an expanded perspective that challenges the prevailing sector-based institutional structures.

To review scientific literature to assess nutritional status of elderly patients with osteoarthritis in the last 16 years. This is an integrative literature review that included articles published in national and international journals indexed in PubMed, SciELO and BIREME. We selected 14 articles, and English language was predominant. The year of publication of articles ranged from 2006 to 2016, and most of papers were cross-sectional studies. To gather papers and for posterior evaluate, we used a validated data collection instrument and the included studies were critical analyzed by reading, gathering and analysis of articles. Studies suggested that there is a positive correlation between obesity and knee osteoarthritis. Obesity is one of the most important modifiable factors in worsening of osteoarthritis symptoms. RESUMO O objetivo da pesquisa foi revisar a produção científica referente à avaliação do estado nutricional de idosos com osteoartrite nos últimos 16 anos. Assim, o estudo foi uma revisão integrativa da literatura, realizada com a busca de artigos publicados em periódicos nacionais e internacionais indexados no PubMed, na SciELO e na BIREME. Foram selecionados 14 artigos, e o idioma inglês foi preponderante. O período de publicação dos artigos variou de 2006 a 2016, com predominância de estudos do tipo transversais. Para reunir os artigos e para posterior avaliação, foi utilizado um instrumento de coleta de dados validado, e as análises críticas dos estudos incluídos foram realizadas por meio da leitura, do agrupamento e da análise dos artigos. As pesquisas sugeriram que existe correlação positiva entre obesidade e osteoartrite de joelhos. Além disto, a obesidade é um dos fatores mais significativos e modificáveis no agravamento dos sintomas da osteoartrite.

To investigate the inter-relation between high sensitivity C-reactive protein and glycated hemoglobin in prediction of risk of obstructive sleep apnea.

to describe the implementation of a training program in robotic surgery and to point the General Surgery procedures that can be performed with advantages using the robotic platform.

to assess the level of knowledge among bariatric surgeons, about the recommendations of the ACERTO Project, correlating their assumptions on their perioperative prescriptions and the reality, according to the patients charts.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is believed to be irreversible although no component of the pathophysiology is irreversible. We show here with a network model that the apparent irreversibility is contributed by the structure of the network of inter-organ signalling. A network model comprising all known inter-organ signals in T2DM showed bi-stability with one insulin sensitive and one insulin resistant attractor. The bi-stability was made robust by multiple positive feedback loops suggesting an evolved allostatic system rather than a homeostatic system. In the absence of the complete network, impaired insulin signalling alone failed to give a stable insulin resistant or hyperglycemic state. The model made a number of correlational predictions many of which were validated by empirical data. The current treatment practice targeting obesity, insulin resistance, beta cell function and normalization of plasma glucose failed to reverse T2DM in the model. However certain behavioural and neuro-endocrine interventions ensured a reversal. These results suggest novel prevention and treatment approaches which need to be tested empirically.

Retrospective cohort study OBJECTIVE.: To determine if International Classification of Diseases (ICD) coding for obesity is biased toward certain subgroups and how potential bias may influence the outcomes of database research in spine.

Previous United States (U.S.) population-based studies have found that body weight may be underestimated when self-reported. However, this research may not apply to all U.S. Hispanics/Latinos, many of whom are immigrants with distinct cultural orientations to ideal body size. We assessed the data quality and accuracy of self-reported weight in a diverse, community-based, U.S. sample of primarily foreign-born Hispanic/Latino adults.

Obesity and its associated diseases are one of the major causes of death worldwide. The gut microbiota has been identified to have essential regulatory effects on human metabolism and obesity in particular. In a recent study we provided some insights into the link between the gut microbiota (GM) and adiposity, as well as host genetic modulation of these processes. Our results identify novel evidence of association between 6 adiposity phenotypes and faecal microbial operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Accumulation of visceral fat, a key risk factor for cardio-metabolic disease, has the strongest and most pervasive signature on the gut microbiota of the factors we examined. Furthermore, we observe that the adiposity-associated OTUs were classified as heritable and in some cases were also associated with host genetic variation at obesity-associated human candidate genes FHIT, TDRG1 and ELAVL4. This addendum confirms our previously published results in the TwinsUK cohort using a different approach to OTU clustering and multivariate analysis, and discusses further the importance of considering the GM as a complex ecosystem.

Infant feeding practices are a focus of early obesity prevention. We tested whether infant growth velocity increased after breastfeeding termination and complementary food introduction.

Pregnancy serves as an opportune time for "teachable moments" to elicit positive behavior change. We evaluated change in exercise perception, behavior and gestational weight gain in participants engaged in a one-hour educational experience.

Stress is associated with body mass gain in some people but with body mass loss in others. When the stressor persists, some people adapt with their stress responses, whereas others do not. Heart rate variability (HRV) reflects autonomic variability and is related to stress responses to psychosocial challenges. It was hypothesized that the combined effects of stress exposure and autonomic variability predict long-term changes in body form.

Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with increased childhood body mass index (BMI), but the relationship may be due to confounding by maternal factors. This study tested the hypothesis that siblings born to mothers who begin to smoke between pregnancies will have higher BMI than older unexposed siblings.

The purpose of this article is to investigate the sensitivity of food access models to a dataset's spatial distribution and the empirical definition of food access, which contributes to understanding the mixed findings of previous studies. Data was collected in the Dan River Region in the United States using a telephone survey for individual-level variables (n = 784) and a store audit for the location of food retailers and grocery store quality. Spatial scanning statistics assessed the spatial distribution of obesity and detected a cluster of grocery stores overlapping with a cluster of obesity centered on a grocery store suggesting that living closer to a grocery store increased the likelihood of obesity. Logistic regression further examined this relationship while controlling for demographic and other food environment variables. Similar to the cluster analysis results, increased distance to a grocery store significantly decreased the likelihood of obesity in the urban subsample (average marginal effects, AME = -0.09, p-value = 0.02). However, controlling for grocery store quality nullified these results (AME = -0.12, p-value = 0.354). Our findings suggest that measuring grocery store accessibility as the distance to the nearest grocery store captures variability in the spatial distribution of the health outcome of interest that may not reflect a causal relationship between the food environment and health.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most frequent type of chronic liver disease in the pediatric age group, paralleling an obesity pandemic. A "multiple-hit" hypothesis has been invoked to explain its pathogenesis. The "first hit" is liver lipid accumulation in obese children with insulin resistance. In the absence of significant lifestyle modifications leading to weight loss and increased physical activity, other factors may act as "second hits" implicated in liver damage progression leading to more severe forms of inflammation and hepatic fibrosis. In this regard, the gut-liver axis (GLA) seems to play a central role. Principal players are the gut microbiota, its bacterial products, and the intestinal barrier. A derangement of GLA (namely, dysbiosis and altered intestinal permeability) may promote bacteria/bacterial product translocation into portal circulation, activation of inflammation via toll-like receptors signaling in hepatocytes, and progression from simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis (NASH). Among other factors a relevant role has been attributed to the farnesoid X receptor, a nuclear transcriptional factor activated from bile acids chemically modified by gut microbiota (GM) enzymes. The individuation and elucidation of GLA derangement in NAFLD pathomechanisms is of interest at all ages and especially in pediatrics to identify new therapeutic approaches in patients recalcitrant to lifestyle changes. Specific targeting of gut microbiota via pre-/probiotic supplementation, feces transplantation, and farnesoid X receptor modulation appear promising.

This paper explores the productive tensions occurring in an interdisciplinary research project on weight loss after obesity surgery. The study was a bio-medical/anthropological collaboration investigating to what extent eating patterns, the subjective experience of hunger and physiological mechanisms are involved in appetite regulation that might determine good or poor response to the surgery. Linking biomedical and anthropological categories and definitions of central concepts about the body turned out to be a major challenge in the collaborative analysis. Notably, the conception of what constitutes 'appetite' was a key concern, as each discipline has its particular definition and operationalization of the term. In response, a material-semiotic approach was chosen which allowed for a reconceptualization of appetite as a 'fractional object', engaged in multiple relations and enacted differently in each instance. This perspective produced creative contrasts and offered alternative explorations of both scientific knowledge production and anthropological practices. The paper thereby explores the interfaces between anthropology and medical science by attending to the challenges and opportunities that result from destabilising an assumed fixed and well-defined concept associated with the body.

Results from epidemiological studies about the association between maternal pre-pregnancy obesity and the risk of shoulder dystocia are inconsistent.

Increasing interest in relationships between religion and health has encouraged research about religion and body weight, which has produced mixed findings. We systematically searched 11 bibliographic databases for quantitative studies of religion and weight, locating and coding 85 studies. We conducted a systematic review, analysing descriptive characteristics of the studies as well as relevant religion-body weight associations related to study characteristics. We summarized findings for two categories of religion variables: religious affiliation and religiosity. For religious affiliation, we found evidence for significant associations with body weight in both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. In particular, Seventh-Day Adventists had lower body weight than other denominations in cross-sectional analyses. For religiosity, significant associations occurred between greater religiosity and higher body weight in both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. In particular, greater religiosity was significantly associated with higher body weight in bivariate analyses but less so in multivariate analyses. A greater proportion of studies that used a representative sample, longitudinal analyses, and samples with only men reported significant associations between religiosity and weight. Evidence in seven studies suggested that health behaviours and psychosocial factors mediate religion-weight relationships. More longitudinal studies and analyses of mediators are needed to provide stronger evidence and further elucidate religion-weight relationships.

The biggest challenge for losing weight is the ability to control the amount of food eaten; the tendency to overeat is called disinhibition. Our aims were to determine whether a) the SLC6A4-promoter variant (5-HTTLPR) relates to disinhibition; b) this association could affect total weight-loss during a behavioral/dietary treatment for obesity.

To determine if there is a association between TSH levels and BMI percentiles in children with primary hypothyroidism who are chemically euthyroid and on treatment with levothyroxine.

  Obesity is one of the most serious public health problem worldwide. Adipose tissue synthetize and secrete many growth factors and several cytokines known as adipokines. Studies demonstrated changes in the levels of these adipokines in many types of cancer associated with obesity. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the possible relationship between adiponectin and leptin levels with pancreas cancer and disease stage, representative of Turkish population.

Overweight and obese body mass index (BMI) status affects an increasing number of children in the United States. The school setting has been identified as a focus area to implement obesity prevention programs.

Obesity is frequently encountered in patients with orthotopic liver transplant (OLT). The role of bariatric surgery is still unclear for this specific population. The aim of this study was to review our experience with laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) after OLT.

Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is a significant complication for women undergoing treatment. We assessed BCRL incidence and risk factors in a large population-based cohort.

Antenatal obesity and associated gestational diabetes (GDM) are increasing worldwide. While pre-existing insulin resistance is implicated in GDM in obese women, the responsible metabolic pathways remain poorly described. Our aim was to compare metabolic profiles in blood of obese pregnant women with and without GDM 10 weeks prior to and at the time of diagnosis by OGTT.

Anatomical reconstruction of the lateral ligament complex in the ankle.

In the last 15 years, it emerged that the practice of regular physical activity reduces the risks of many diseases (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, etc.) and it is fundamental in weight control and energy consuming to contrast obesity. Different groups proposed many molecular mechanisms as responsible for the positive effects of physical activity in healthy life. However, many points remain to be clarified. In this mini-review we reported the latest observations on the effects of physical exercise on healthy skeletal and cardiac muscle focusing on muscle stem cells. The last ones represent the fundamental elements for muscle regeneration post injury, but also for healthy muscle homeostasis. Interestingly, in both muscle tissues the morphological consequence of physical activity is a physiological hypertrophy that depends on different phenomena both in differentiated cells and stem cells. The signaling pathways for physical exercise effects present common elements in skeletal and cardiac muscle, like activation of specific transcription factors, proliferative pathways, and cytokines. More recently, post translational (miRNAs) or epigenetic (DNA methylation) modifications have been demonstrated. However, several points remain unresolved thus requiring new research on the effect of exercise on muscle stem cells.

Effective weight reduction remains a challenge throughout the world as the prevalence of obesity and its consequences are increasing. This study aimed to determine the effects of an individualized nutrition counseling program (IC) matched with a transtheoretical model (TTM) for overweight and obese subjects.

Hypercholesterolemia and hypertension are among the most important risk factors for cardiovascular (CV) disease. They are also important contributors to metabolic diseases including diabetes that further increase CV risk. Updated guidelines emphasize targeted reduction of overall CV risks but do not explicitly incorporate potential adverse metabolic outcomes that also influence CV health. Hypercholesterolemia and hypertension have synergistic deleterious effects on interrelated insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction. Dysregulation of the renin-angiotensin system is an important pathophysiological mechanism linking insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction to atherogenesis. Statins are the reference standard treatment to prevent CV disease in patients with hypercholesterolemia. Statins work best for secondary CV prevention. Unfortunately, most statin therapies dose-dependently cause insulin resistance, increase new onset diabetes risk and exacerbate existing type 2 diabetes mellitus. Pravastatin is often too weak to achieve target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels despite having beneficial metabolic actions. Renin-angiotensin system inhibitors improve both endothelial dysfunction and insulin resistance in addition to controlling blood pressure. In this regard, combined statin-based and renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitor therapies demonstrate additive/synergistic beneficial effects on endothelial dysfunction, insulin resistance, and other metabolic parameters in addition to lowering both cholesterol levels and blood pressure. This combined therapy simultaneously reduces CV events when compared to either drug type used as monotherapy. This is mediated by both separate and interrelated mechanisms. Therefore, statin-based therapy combined with RAS inhibitors is important for developing optimal management strategies in patients with hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, or obesity. This combined therapy can help prevent or treat CV disease while minimizing adverse metabolic consequences.

Diarrhea after bariatric procedures, mainly those with malabsorptive elements including Roux-Y Gastric Bypass and Biliopancreatic Diversion, is common and an essential determinant of quality of life and micro- and macronutrient deficiencies. Bariatric surgery is the only sustainably successful method to address morbid obesity and its comorbidities, particularly gaining more and more importance in the specific treatment of diabetic patients. Approximately half a million procedures are annually performed around the world, with numbers expected to rise drastically in the near future. A multitude of factors exert their influence on bowel habits; preoperative comorbidities and procedure-related aspects are intertwined with postoperative nutritional habits. Diagnosis may be challenging owing to the characteristics of post-bariatric surgery anatomy with hindered accessibility of excluded segments of the small bowel and restriction at the gastric level. Conventional testing measures, if available, generally yield low accuracy and are usually not validated in this specific population. Limited trials of empiric treatment are a practical alternative and oftentimes an indispensable part of the diagnostic process. This review provides an overview of causes for chronic post-bariatric surgery diarrhea and details the particularities of its diagnosis and treatment in this specific patient population. Topics of current interest such as the impact of gut microbiota and the influence of bile acids on morbid obesity and especially their role in diarrhea are highlighted in order to provide a better understanding of the specific problems and chances of future treatment in post-bariatric surgery patients.

Bariatric surgery has become the procedure of choice to deal with morbid and super-morbid obesity, with the greatest chance of success. The objectives of this study were: a) to analyse the evolution of the percentage of excess BMI lost (PEBMIL) and quality of life in the medium and long term after bariatric surgery; b) to evaluate the differences in PEBMIL and quality of life according to the surgical technique performed; and c) examine the relationship between PEBMIL and quality of life.

Precision medicine in psychiatry is on the rise, and depression and obesity - two highly prevalent, comorbid and well-characterised phenotypes - are optimal targets for the approach. Add the bedrock susceptibility gene, FTO, and Riviera et al have identified a constellation of factors that could enhance clinical treatment of both disorders.

One of the central tenets in obesity prevention and management is caloric restriction. This perspective presents salient features of how calories and energy balance matter, also called the "calories in, calories out paradigm." Determinants of energy balance and relationships to dietary macronutrient content are reviewed. The rationale and features of the carbohydrate-insulin hypothesis postulate that carbohydrate restriction confers a metabolic advantage. According to this model, a large amount of fat intake is enabled without weight gain. Evidence concerning this possibility is detailed. The relationship and application of the laws of thermodynamics are then clarified with current primary research. Strong data indicate that energy balance is not materially changed during isocaloric substitution of dietary fats for carbohydrates. Results from a number of sources refute both the theory and effectiveness of the carbohydrate-insulin hypothesis. Instead, risk for obesity is primarily determined by total calorie intake.

To assess the numbers of obese children and young people (CYP) eligible for assessment and management at each stage of the childhood obesity pathway in England.

For much of our history, the most basic information about the microbial world has evaded characterization. Next-generation sequencing has led to a rapid increase in understanding of the structure and function of host-associated microbial communities in diverse diseases ranging from obesity to autism. Through experimental systems such as gnotobiotic mice only colonized with known microbes, a causal relationship between microbial communities and disease phenotypes has been supported. Now, microbiome research must move beyond correlations and general demonstration of causality to develop mechanistic understandings of microbial influence, including through their metabolic activities. Similar to the microbiome field, advances in technologies for cataloguing small molecules have broadened our understanding of the metabolites that populate our bodies. Integration of microbial and metabolomics data paired with experimental validation has promise for identifying microbial influence on host physiology through production, modification, or degradation of bioactive metabolites. Realization of microbial metabolic activities that affect health is hampered by gaps in our understanding of (1) biological properties of microbes and metabolites, (2) which microbial enzymes/pathways produce which metabolites, and (3) the effects of metabolites on hosts. Capitalizing on known mechanistic relationships and filling gaps in our understanding has the potential to enable translational microbiome research across disease contexts.

Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (SG) is a popular bariatric procedure in morbidly obese Asians.

New research is revealing a strong association between inflammatory markers with bipolar disorder (BD), potentially due to the high prevalence of cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors in BD. We aimed to synthesize the literature examining the association between the clinically most relevant inflammatory marker, C-reactive protein (CRP) and cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors in patients with BD.

Supporting children's self-regulation in eating through caregivers' practice of responsive feeding is paramount to obesity prevention, and while much attention has been given to supporting children's self-regulation in eating through parents' responsive feeding practices in the home setting, little attention has been given to this issue in childcare settings. This qualitative study examines childcare providers' perspectives on using responsive feeding practices with young children (2-5years). Individual semi-structured interviews were conducted with providers until saturation was reached. Data was analyzed using thematic analysis. The final sample included 18 providers who were employed full-time in Head Start or state-licensed center-based childcare programs, cared for children (2-5y), and were directly responsible for serving meals and snacks. Providers were primarily (67%) employed in childcare programs that served children from low-income families and received reimbursement for meals and snacks from the US Department of Agriculture's Child and Adult Care Food Program. Three factors emerged that shaped childcare providers' experiences using responsive feeding practices: the providers' perspectives about whether or not young children can self-regulate food intake, their understanding of Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) portion size regulations, and the availability of food at the center where they worked. Future research should examine how childcare providers' understanding of children's ability to self-regulate their food intake, the appropriate use of the CACFP regulations in relationship to serving sizes, and having food available to offer seconds promotes providers' use of responsive feeding practices in center-based childcare programs and children's dietary behaviors.

Aortic vascular stiffness has been implicated in the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) in obese individuals. However, the mechanism promoting these adverse effects are unclear. In this context, promotion of obesity through consumption of a western diet (WD) high in fat and fructose leads to excess circulating uric acid. There is accumulating data implicating elevated uric acid in the promotion of CVD and CKD. Accordingly, we hypothesized that xanthine oxidase(XO) inhibition with allopurinol would prevent a rise in vascular stiffness and proteinuria in a translationally relevant model of WD-induced obesity.

Schisandra, a globally distributed plant, has been widely applied for the treatment of diseases such as hyperlipidemia, fatty liver and obesity in China. In the present work, a rapid resolution liquid chromatography coupled with quadruple-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (RRLC-Q-TOF-MS)-based metabolomics was conducted to investigate the intervention effect of Schisandra chinensis lignans (SCL) on hyperlipidemia mice induced by high-fat diet (HFD).

Most knee replacement patients are overweight/obese, yet are commonly excluded from evidence-based weight loss programs due to mobility limitations and barriers faced around the time of surgery. The purpose of this study was to identify knee replacement patient preferences for weight loss programs and qualitatively understand previous motives for weight loss attempts as well as strategies used to facilitate behavior changes.

Early childhood obesity disproportionately affects children of low socioeconomic status. Children attending Head Start are reported to have an obesity rate of 17.9%.This longitudinal study aimed to understand the relationship between cognitive stimulation at home and intake of junk food, physical activity and body size, for a nationally representative sample of 3- and 4-year old children entering Head Start.

Over the last fifty years there has been dramatic change in the human environment, behaviours and way-of-life. These changes have resulted in escalating rates of metabolic syndrome not only in general population but also among people with mental illness. Various factors, like the lack of exercise, use of psychotropic medications and inadequate medical care leads to the increased risk of metabolic changes among people with mental illness. Hence, there is a greater need to evaluate metabolic syndrome in this population.

Maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) is an important measure of cardiorespiratory capacity of an individual at a given degree of fitness and oxygen availability. Risk of cardiovascular diseases increases with increasing degree of obesity and a low level of VO2max has been established as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular mortality.

Some wildlife species are capable of surviving in urbanised environments. However, the implications of urbanisation on wildlife health, and public health regarding zoonoses, are often unknown. Quenda (syn. southern brown bandicoots, Isoodon obesulus) survive in many areas of Perth, Australia, despite urbanisation. This study investigated differences in gastrointestinal and macroscopic ecto-parasitic infections, morphometrics and reproductive status between bushland and urban dwelling quenda. 287 quenda in the greater Perth region were captured and sampled for faeces (to detect gastrointestinal parasites), blood (to detect Toxoplasma gondii antibodies), ectoparasites, and morphometrics. Data were analysed using multivariable logistic and linear regression. Most parasitic infections identified in quenda were of native parasite taxa that are either not known to, or considered highly unlikely to, infect humans or domestic animals. However, stickfast fleas (Echidnophaga spp.) were present at low prevalences and intensities, and Giardia spp., Cryptosporidium spp. and Amblyomma spp. infections require further investigation to clarify their anthropozoonotic significance. Quenda captured in urbanised environments had differing odds of or intensity of certain parasitic infections, compared to those in bushland - likely attributable to quenda population density, and in some cases the availability of other host species or anthropogenic sources of infection. Urbanised environments were associated with an increase in net weight of adult male quenda by 189.0g (95% CI 68.6-309.5g; p=0.002; adjusted R(2)=0.06) and adult female quenda by 140.1g (95% CI 3.9-276.3g; p=0.044; adjusted R(2)=0.07), with study findings suggesting a tendency towards obesity in urbanised environments. Adult female quenda in bushland had increased odds of an active pouch (adjusted OR=4.89, 95% CI 1.7-14.5), suggesting decreased reproductive activity in quenda from urbanised environments. These results highlight the subtle, yet extensive impacts that urbanised environments may have on wildlife ecology, even for those species which apparently adjust well to urbanisation.

Objective: To investigate the relationship between serum uric acid (SUA) levels and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Methods: A total of 400 patients who were hospitalized in the Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism of Jinshan Branch, Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital between April 2014 and December 2015 were divided into normouricemia (NUA, n=319) group and hyperuricemia (HUA, n=81) group according to the presence of HUA. Clinical features of the two groups were compared. Patients were further stratified into quartiles based on SUA levels, and then association between hs-CRP and SUA was analyzed. Results: Compared to the NUA group, the patients with HUA had higher hs-CRP concentration [2.12 (1.15, 6.73) mg/L vs 1.14 (0.52, 3.44) mg/L, P<0.001], erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) [19.0 (10.5, 29.5) mm/h vs 12.0 (8.0, 17.0) mm/h, P<0.001], body mass index (BMI) [(25.2±3.6) kg/m(2) vs (23.6±3.6) kg/m(2,) P<0.001], and homeostasis model assessment-2 of insulin resistance (HOMA2-IR) index [1.88 (1.11, 2.94) vs 1.27 (0.77, 2.00), P<0.001]. After adjusting for age, the median level of hs-CRP of female with HUA was higher than that of male, female with NUA, and male with NUA (2.59, 1.94, 1.25 and 1.09 mg/L, respectively, P<0.001). There was significant difference in the prevalence of HUA among the patients with underweight, normal weight, overweight, and obesity (0, 12.3%, 21.6% and 25.8%, respectively, P=0.002). After adjusting for age and gender, duration of diabetes, BMI, serum lipids, level of SUA was still correlated with hs-CRP, HOMA2-IR, fasting C-peptide, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, Cystatin C, microalbuminuria, respectively(all P<0.05). The level of SUA was positively associated with the increase of hs-CRP level (P=0.001). Multiple linear regression analysis showed that there was an independent and positive association between SUA and hs-CRP levels. Conclusion: SUA was independently associated with hs-CRP in T2DM patients, which suggested that chronic inflammation exists in HUA patients.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a common chronic liver disease closely associated with obesity, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes. It can gradually progress to liver cirrhosis or even hepatocellular carcinoma; however, there are still no specific therapeutic agents for this disease. Liraglutide is a human glucagon-like peptide-1 analogue and has a marked effect in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. At present, many studies indicate that liraglutide also has a certain therapeutic effect on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease during the treatment of type 2 diabetes, but its mechanism of action remains unknown. This article reviews the known mechanisms of action of liraglutide in the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Obesity is an excess accumulation of adipose tissue mass, and, together with its sequelae, in particular type II diabetes and metabolic syndrome, obesity presents a major health crisis. Although obesity is simply caused by increased adipose mass, the heterogeneity of adipose tissue in humans means that the response to increased energy balance is highly complex. Individual subjects with similar phenotypes may respond very differently to the same treatments; therefore, obesity may benefit from a personalized precision medicine approach. The variability in the development of obesity is indeed driven by differences in sex, genetics, and environment, but also by the various types of adipose tissue as well as the different cell types that compose it. By describing the distinct cell populations that reside in different fat depots, we can interpret the complex effect of these various players in the maintenance of whole-body energy homeostasis. To further understand adipose tissue, adipogenic differentiation and the transcriptional program of lipid accumulation must be investigated. As the cell- and depot-specific functions are described, they can be placed in the context of energy excess to understand how the heterogeneity of adipose tissue shapes individual metabolic status and condition.

The incidence of type 1 diabetes (T1D) is increasing globally. One hypothesis is that increasing childhood obesity rates may explain part of this increase, but, as T1D is rare, intervention studies are challenging to perform. The aim of this study was to assess this hypothesis with a Mendelian randomization approach that uses genetic variants as instrumental variables to test for causal associations.

Metabolic syndrome is closely linked to obesity. Menopause may play a critical role in understanding the pathophysiology of metabolic syndrome in women. We investigated the relative contribution of obesity and menopause to the association between serum adiponectin levels and the development of metabolic syndrome.

The mechanism underlying hot flashes is not well-understood, primarily because of complex relationships between and among hot flashes and their risk factors.

The present study assessed the predictive value of age and Modified Frailty Index (mFI) on the management of primary epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients aged 70 years or older (elderly).

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is increasing partly due to the obesity epidemic. Adipocytokines have thus been suggested as first trimester screening markers for GDM. In this study we explore the associations between body mass index (BMI) and serum concentrations of adiponectin, leptin, and the adiponectin/leptin ratio. Furthermore, we investigate whether these markers can improve the ability to screen for GDM in the first trimester.

Long-term effects of diet beverage consumption on the regulation of caloric intake is unclear. The goal of this study was to investigate whether the chronic intake of a liquid diet with nonnutritive sweeteners (NNS) would lead to greater appetite and weight gain.

Satiety-signaling, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus play a pivotal role in the regulation of energy homeostasis. Recent studies reported altered mitochondrial dynamics and decreased mitochondria- endoplasmic reticulum contacts in POMC neurons during diet-induced obesity. Since mitochondria play a crucial role in Ca(2+) signaling, we investigated whether obesity alters Ca(2+) handling of these neurons in mice. In diet-induced obesity, cellular Ca(2+) handling properties including mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake capacity are impaired, and an increased resting level of free intracellular Ca(2+) is accompanied by a marked decrease in neuronal excitability. Experimentally increasing or decreasing intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations reproduced electrophysiological properties observed in diet-induced obesity. Taken together, we provide the first direct evidence for a diet-dependent deterioration of Ca(2+) homeostasis in POMC neurons during obesity development resulting in impaired function of these critical energy homeostasis-regulating neurons.

During recent 10-15 years, percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) have reached a new level of efficacy and safety. Rate of serious coronary complications has decreased. That to a greater degree exposes the problem of peripheral complications at the site of arterial approach. At the same time portion of patients older than 75 years in the total pool of PCI constantly increases. Number of patients with pronounced obesity also grows each year. Radial approach for PCI allows to substantially decrease rate of peripheral complications at the account of lowered rate of bleedings, and to shorten duration of hospitalization. In this literature review we present results of a number of relevant clinical studies including those which contained groups of elderly patients and of patients with obesity. We also have summarized main advantages and disadvantages of radial approach as compared with femoral approach for coronary angiography and PCI.

Pelvic organ prolapse is the descent of one or more of the anterior vaginal wall, posterior vaginal wall, the uterus (cervix), or the apex of the vagina (vaginal vault or cuff scar after hysterectomy). Prevalence increases with age. The cause of prolapse is multifactorial but is primarily associated with pregnancy and vaginal delivery, which lead to direct pelvic floor muscle and connective tissue injury. Hysterectomy, pelvic surgery, and conditions associated with sustained episodes of increased intra-abdominal pressure, including obesity, chronic cough, constipation, and repeated heavy lifting, also contribute to prolapse. Most patients with pelvic organ prolapse are asymptomatic. Symptoms become more bothersome as the bulge protrudes past the vaginal opening. Initial evaluation includes a history and systematic pelvic examination including assessment for urinary incontinence, bladder outlet obstruction, and fecal incontinence. Treatment options include observation, vaginal pessaries, and surgery. Most women can be successfully fit with a vaginal pessary. Available surgical options are reconstructive pelvic surgery with or without mesh augmentation and obliterative surgery.

The spatial proximity of adipose depots to secondary lymph nodes allows a unique relation between the two systems. Obesity, predominately visceral adiposity, links to numerous diseases; hence, we postulate that secondary lymphatics within this region contributes to disease risk.

We and others have demonstrated that adipose tissue is a reservoir for HIV. Evaluation of the mechanisms responsible for viral persistence may lead to ways of reducing these reservoirs. Here, we evaluated the immune characteristics of adipose tissue in HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) and in non-HIV-infected patients. We notably sought to determine whether adipose tissue's intrinsic properties and/or HIV induced alteration of the tissue environment may favour viral persistence. ART-controlled HIV infection was associated with a difference in the CD4/CD8 T-cell ratio and an elevated proportion of Treg cells in subcutaneous adipose tissue. No changes in Th1, Th2 and Th17 cell proportions or activation markers expression on T cell (Ki-67, HLA-DR) could be detected, and the percentage of CD69-expressing resident memory CD4(+) T cells was not affected. Overall, our results indicate that adipose-tissue-resident CD4(+) T cells are not extensively activated during HIV infection. PD-1 was expressed by a high proportion of tissue-resident memory CD4(+) T cells in both HIV-infected patients and non-HIV-infected patients. Our findings suggest that adipose tissue's intrinsic immunomodulatory properties may limit immune activation and thus may strongly contribute to viral persistence. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Adipokines are secreted by white adipose tissue, an active endocrine organ, and play a role in the regulation of metabolic functions such as lipid metabolism, inflammation, and vascular homeostasis. Adipokines are secreted in excess in obesity and contribute to the development of associated comorbidities such as metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis. Psoriasis, a chronic immune-mediated skin disease, is associated with obesity and increased cardiovascular risk. Understanding the role of adipokines in psoriasis may in part explain the association between psoriasis and cardiovascular disease. This review summarizes the data regarding key adipokines in patients with psoriasis and the change in adipokine profiles with psoriasis therapy. Adipokines may be mediators of cutaneous inflammation suggesting a role in the pathophysiology of psoriasis and the development of comorbidities.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an increasingly prevalent problem worldwide. Treatment of end-stage kidney disease is beyond the reach of an average Nigerian. The prevention and early detection are imperative to reducing its burden.

Ultrasound-targeted microbubble destruction (UTMD) is a novel means of tissue-specific gene delivery. This approach systemically infuses transgenes precoupled to gas-filled lipid microbubbles that are burst within the microvasculature of target tissues via an ultrasound signal resulting in release of DNA and transfection of neighboring cells within the tissue. Previous work has shown that adenovirus containing cDNA of UCP-1, injected into the epididymal fat pads in mice, induced localized fat depletion, improving glucose tolerance, and decreasing food intake in obese diabetic mice. Our group recently demonstrated that gene therapy by UTMD achieved beta cell regeneration in streptozotocin (STZ)-treated mice and baboons. We hypothesized that gene therapy with BMP7/PRDM16/PPARGC1A in skeletal muscle (SKM) of obese Zucker diabetic fatty (fa/fa) rats using UTMD technology would produce a brown adipose tissue (BAT) phenotype with UCP-1 overexpression. This study was designed as a proof of concept (POC) project. Obese Zucker rats were administered plasmid cDNA contructs encoding a gene cocktail with BMP7/PRDM16/PPARGC1A incorporated within microbubbles and intravenously delivered into their left thigh. Controls received UTMD with plasmids driving a DsRed reporter gene. An ultrasound transducer was directed to the thigh to disrupt the microbubbles within the microcirculation. Blood samples were drawn at baseline, and after treatment to measure glucose, insulin, and free fatty acids levels. SKM was harvested for immunohistochemistry (IHC). Our IHC results showed a reliable pattern of effective UTMD-based gene delivery in enhancing SKM overexpression of the UCP-1 gene. This clearly indicates that our plasmid DNA construct encoding the gene combination of PRDM16, PPARGC1A, and BMP7 reprogrammed adult SKM tissue into brown adipose cells in vivo. Our pilot established POC showing that the administration of the gene cocktail to SKM in this rat model of genetic obesity using UTMD gene therapy, engineered a BAT phenotype with UCP-1 over-expression. © 2017 IUBMB Life, 2017.

The association between cumulative metabolic syndrome (MS) factors and knee osteoarthritis (KOA) has been highlighted over the past two decades.

There is a growing interest of using technologies to propose solutions for healthcare issues. One of such issues is the incidence of chronic diseases, which are responsible for a considerable proportion of worldwide mortality. It is possible to prevent the development of such diseases using tools and methods that instruct the population. To achieve this, mobile games provide a powerful environment for teaching different subjects to user, without them actively knowing that they are learning new concepts. Despite the growing interest of using mobile games in healthcare, more specifically by patients with chronic diseases, in the best of our knowledge there are no studies that address the current research being published in the area. To close this gap, we carried out a systematic mapping study to synthesize an overview of the area. Five databases were searched and more than 1200 studies were analyzed and filtered. Among them, 17 met the the inclusion and exclusion criteria defined in this work. The results show that there is still room for research in this area, since the studies focus on a younger audience rather than proposing solutions for all ages. Furthermore, the number of chronic conditions being addressed is still small, obesity and diabetes are prevalent. Besides, the full capacity of game features that foster learning through games are not being employed, the majority of games proposed by the articles encompass less than half of these features.

With the rising incidence and prevalence rates of type 2 diabetes globally, it is imperative that diabetes prevention strategies are implemented to stem the flow of new cases. Successful interventions include both lifestyle modification and pharmaceutical agents, and large, multicentre, randomised, controlled studies in different populations have identified the benefits of both. However, translating positive trial outcomes to the real world is particularly challenging, as lifestyle interventions require regular reinforcement from healthcare professionals to be maintained. Pharmaceutical therapies may therefore play an adjunctive role in combination with lifestyle to prevent diabetes. Population-based strategies are also necessary to reduce sedentary behaviour and obesity. Well-established glucose-lowering therapies such as metformin, sulphonylureas, thiazolidinediones and insulin and newer agents such as incretin therapies and sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors have all been investigated in randomised controlled trials for diabetes prevention with varying success. Non-glucose-lowering therapies such as orlistat and renin angiotensin system blockers can prevent diabetes, whereas statins are associated with slightly increased risk. Diabetes prevention strategies should carefully consider the use of these agents according to individual patient circumstances and phenotypic profile.

Although fathers have an important influence on their children's well-being, their unique influence on child lifestyle behaviors has been largely overlooked in the literature. To inform and encourage future research, this paper provides an overview of existing studies that have examined the influence of fathers on the physical activity and dietary behaviors of their children.

To investigate the effects of a multidisciplinary childhood obesity treatment programme on subjective evaluations of psychosocial well-being and quality of life.

There is no well-recognized guideline for intraoperative fluid management in bariatric surgery. Goal-directed fluid therapy (GDFT) is a new concept of perioperative fluid management which was shown to improve patients' prognoses. Dynamic indicators may better predict fluid response compared to static indicators. In this study, we aimed to assess effects of administering GDFT protocol via Pleth Variability Index (PVI) in morbidly obese patients undergoing laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery.

Obesity and diabetes are strongly associated with metabolic and cardiovascular disorders including dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, hypertension, and heart failure. Adipose tissue is identified as a complex endocrine organ, which by exerting a wide array of regulatory functions at the cellular, tissue and systemic levels can have profound effects on the cardiovascular system. Different terms including "epicardial," "pericardial," and "paracardial" have been used to describe adipose tissue deposits surrounding the heart. Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a unique and multifaceted fat depot with local and systemic effects. The functional and anatomic proximity of EAT to the myocardium enables endocrine, paracrine, and vasocrine effects on the heart. EAT displays a large secretosome, which regulates physiological and pathophysiological processes in the heart. Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) secretes adipose-derived relaxing factor, which is a "cocktail" of cytokines, adipokines, microRNAs, and cellular mediators, with a potent effect on paracrine regulation of vascular tone, vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, migration, atherosclerosis-susceptibility, and restenosis. Although there are various physiological functions of the EAT and PVAT, a phenotypic transformation can lead to a major pathogenic role in various cardiovascular diseases. The equilibrium between the physiological and pathophysiological properties of EAT is very delicate and susceptible to the influences of intrinsic and extrinsic factors. Various adipokines secreted from EAT and PVAT have a profound effect on the myocardium and coronary arteries; targeting these adipokines could be an important therapeutic approach to counteract cardiovascular disease.

To evaluate the effect of weight loss on the retrobulbar hemodynamics in patients who had undergone bariatric surgery for obesity using color Doppler ultrasound (CDU) and to evaluate correlations with intraocular pressure (IOP) changes measured using Goldman applanation tonometry.

We conducted a meta-analysis of the conflicting epidemiologic evidence on the association between midlife body mass index (BMI) and dementia.

The adenoma detection rate is commonly used as a measure of the quality of colonoscopy. This study assessed both the association between the adenoma detection rate and the quality of bowel preparation and the risk factors associated with the adenoma detection rate in screening colonoscopy.

Obesity, a common metabolic disease, is a known cause of male infertility due to its associated health risk. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have also been reported to be associated with male reproductive diseases; however, their role in the association between high-fat diet-induced obesity (DIO) and male reproduction remains unclear.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease worldwide, with prevalence above 30% in many adult populations. Strongly associated with obesity, weight loss through diet and physical activity is the mainstay of its management. Weight loss can be difficult to achieve and maintain however, and uncertainty exists as to which lifestyle changes are most effective.

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in smokers and this relationship is complicated by the multiplicity of cardiovascular effects of smoking. However, the relationship between intensity and duration of cigarette smoking and echocardiographic measures of right and left ventricular structure and function has been poorly studied.

Whey protein (WP) intake has been shown to reduce postprandial glycemia. Majority of WP research in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) involved acute challenge or weight loss studies. It is not known if WP supplementation can provide sustained glucose lowering. Our goal was to investigate the effects of WP on glycemia comprehensively by using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) while avoiding the confounding effects of variable food intake through controlled feeding.

To assess the effect of free diabetes care on metabolic control and on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of youths living with type 1 diabetes in Cameroon.

We recently showed that Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) reduces risks of mortality, cardiovascular death and myocardial infarction in obese individuals compared with matched patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). We have examined changes in risk factors after RYGB, with the aim of explaining these effects.

This study evaluated relationships between glycaemic control, body mass index (BMI), comorbidities and pharmacological treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D).

The objective of the current study was to compare the responses to different ex vivo immunogenic challenges between immune cells derived from metabolically healthy subjects with obesity and subjects with obesity and type 2 diabetes.

Every surgical wound is colonized by bacteria, but only a small percentage displays symptoms of infection. The distribution of pathogens isolated in surgical site infections has not significantly changed over the last decades. Staph. Aureus, Coag(-) Staphylococci, Enterococcus spp and E. Coli are the main strains appearing. In addition, a continuously rising proportion of surgical site infections caused by resistant bacterial species (MRSA, C. Albicans) has been reported.

We investigated the prevalence, predictors of and effect of Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) regimen on cardiometabolic risk among HIV-positive Ugandan adults at enrolment into a prospective cohort to study the Complications of Long-Term ART (CoLTART).

Obesity is considered as a major health problem of children and adolescents. The present meta-analysis was conducted by extensive search of studies on the prevalence of obesity among school-aged children and youth aged 6-18 years in Iran.

Few studies have investigated the effects of dietary approaches to stop hypertension (DASH) diet on obesity in children. The present study was conducted to examine adherence to the DASH diet in relation to obesity in children and adolescents, Isfahan, Iran.

Emerging evidence suggests a relationship between sodium (Na) intake and obesity risk. The aim of this study was to investigate the link between 24-hour (24-h) urinary Na excretion and adiposity measures in a sample of Iranian children and adolescents.

Exendin-4 (EX-4), a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist, has been shown to reduce food intake and to increase proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene expression in the hypothalamus. In this study, we examined the potential neural mechanisms by which these effects occur. Male Sprague Dawley rats were implanted with a cannula in the third ventricle of the brain through which an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) (wortmannin) was administered, and EX-4 or vehicle was administered via intraperitoneal (IP) injection. The activity of PI3K/protein kinase B (AKT) and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) in the hypothalamic arcuate was determined. We found that EX-4 treatment significantly decreased food intake and body weight. However, there were almost no changes in food intake and body weight when wortmannin injection (into the third ventricle) occurred prior to EX-4 IP injection. EX-4 not only increased the activity of PI3K/AKT, but it also increased IRS-1 activity. These results show that EX-4 likely suppresses food intake due to its ability to enhance insulin signaling.

In lipodystrophy (LD) adipose tissue function to store lipids is impaired, leading to metabolic syndrome, similar to that found in obesity. Emerging evidence links dysmetabolism with disorders of the immune system. Our aim is to investigate whether T-cell populations with regulatory function and monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) are affected by LD and obesity.

We performed integrative analysis of genes associated with type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) associated complications by automated text mining with manual curation and also gene expression analysis from Gene Expression Omnibus. They were analysed for pathogenic or protective role, trends, interaction with risk factors, Gene Ontology enrichment and tissue wise differential expression. The database T2DiACoD houses 650 genes, and 34 microRNAs associated with T2DM complications. Seven genes AGER, TNFRSF11B, CRK, PON1, ADIPOQ, CRP and NOS3 are associated with all 5 complications. Several genes are studied in multiple years in all complications with high proportion in cardiovascular (75.8%) and atherosclerosis (51.3%). T2DM Patients' skeletal muscle tissues showed high fold change in differentially expressed genes. Among the differentially expressed genes, VEGFA is associated with several complications of T2DM. A few genes ACE2, ADCYAP1, HDAC4, NCF1, NFE2L2, OSM, SMAD1, TGFB1, BDNF, SYVN1, TXNIP, CD36, CYP2J2, NLRP3 with details of protective role are catalogued. Obesity is clearly a dominant risk factor interacting with the genes of T2DM complications followed by inflammation, diet and stress to variable extents. This information emerging from the integrative approach used in this work could benefit further therapeutic approaches. The T2DiACoD is available at www.http://t2diacod.igib.res.in/ .

Childhood obesity is an important cause of cardiovascular risk with chronic inflammation. Oxidative stress may contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity-related cardiovascular pathologies. We aimed to evaluate thiol/disulphide homeostasis as a novel and sensitive marker of oxidative stress and to evaluate its relationship with some inflammatory and cardiovascular markers in obese children.

Perivascular adipose tissue exhibits characteristics of active local inflammation, which contributes to the development of atherosclerotic disease as a complication of obesity/metabolic syndrome. However, the precise role of perivascular adipose tissue in the progression of abdominal aortic aneurysm remains unclear. To test the hypothesis that genetic deletion of angiotensin II type 1a (AT1a) receptor in perivascular visceral adipose tissue (VAT) can attenuate aortic aneurysm formation in apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice, we performed adipose tissue transplantation experiments by using an angiotensin II-induced aneurysm murine model, in which we transplanted VAT from ApoE(-/-) or ApoE(-/-) AT1a(-/-) donor mice onto the abdominal aorta of ApoE(-/-) recipient mice. Compared with ApoE(-/-) VAT transplantation, ApoE(-/-) AT1a(-/-) VAT transplantation markedly attenuated aortic aneurysm formation, macrophage infiltration, and gelatinolytic activity in the abdominal aorta. AT1a receptor activation led to the polarization of macrophages in perivascular VAT toward the proinflammatory phenotype. Moreover, osteopontin expression and gelatinolytic activity were considerably lower in ApoE(-/-) AT1a(-/-) perivascular VAT than in ApoE(-/-) perivascular VAT, and angiotensin II-induced osteopontin secretion from adipocytes was eliminated after deletion of AT1a receptor in adipocytes. Notably, induction of macrophage migration by conditioned medium from angiotensin II-stimulated wild-type adipocytes was suppressed by treatment with an osteopontin-neutralizing antibody, and ApoE(-/-) OPN(-/-) VAT transplantation more potently attenuated aortic aneurysm formation than ApoE(-/-) VAT transplantation. Our findings indicate a previously unrecognized effect of AT1a receptor in perivascular VAT on the pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities of Australia experience poorer health outcomes in the areas of overweight and obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Contributing to this burden of disease in the Australian community generally and in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities, is the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs). We have described a protocol for a review to systematically scope articles that document use of SSBs and interventions to reduce their consumption with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. These results will inform future work that investigates interventions aimed at reducing harm associated with SSB consumption.

To examine the association between household food insecurity (HFI) and risk of childhood stunting and to determine whether this association is modified by maternal-child overweight/obesity.

This study assessed all-cause and specific-cause mortality after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) and in matched control subjects, stratified by diabetes status.

The NONcNZO10/LtJ mouse is a polygenic model of type-2 diabetes (T2D) that shows moderate obesity and diabetes, and is regarded as a good model reflective of the conditions of human T2D. In this study, we analyzed pathological changes of pancreases with the progress of time by using histopathology and gene expression analysis, including microRNA. A number of gene expression changes associated with decreased insulin secretion (possibly regulated by miR-29a/b) were observed, and zinc homeostasis (Slc30a8, Mt1 and Mt2) or glucose metabolism (Slc2a2) was suggested as being the candidate mechanism of pancreas failure in NONcNZO10/LtJ mice. These results demonstrate NONcNZO10/LtJ mice have a complex pathogenic mechanism of diabetes, and moreover, this fundamental information of NONcNZO10/LtJ mice would offer the opportunity for research and development of a novel antidiabetic drug.

Children born to mothers with abnormal body mass index (BMI) have increased risk for mortality. The aim of this study was to investigate whether maternal BMI is a risk factor for neonatal death in select Asian countries, including the nature of association between maternal BMI and the discrete timing of neonatal death.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the anthropometric and lipid profiles of individuals being considered for bariatric surgery, taking into account the presence of the Thr54 allele of the fatty acid-binding protein-2 (FABP-2) gene (rs1799883), and dietary intake.

The aim of this study was to explore the association between sodium intake, as assessed by 24-h urinary sodium excretion, and various obesity parameters among South Korean adults. The associations of 24-h urinary sodium excretion and sodium intake calculated from the dietary questionnaire with obesity parameters also were compared.

In recent decades, there has been a worldwide parallel increase in the prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), which is not surprising, given that increased visceral fat is the main risk factor for the development of T2DM in genetically predisposed individuals. An intervention focused on intensive blood glucose control in T2DM with classic drugs increases the risk of weight gain and the rate of hypoglycaemia. In contrast, weight loss through lifestyle changes, drugs and/or surgery simultaneously improves most cardiovascular (CV) risk factors, including hyperglycemia. Intensive intervention on lifestyle induces an overall benefit in patients with T2DM, but long-term weight loss is modest and has not been shown to reduce CV morbidity and mortality. The emergence of new therapeutic classes for T2DM and obesity, which simultaneously improve HbA1c, weight and other CV risk factors without inducing hypoglycaemia, represents a major change in the management of patients with diabesity. A sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor and a GLP-1 receptor agonist have recently been shown to decrease CV and total mortality in type 2 diabetic patients with CV disease. Furthermore, bariatric surgery rapidly induces remission or improvement of T2DM in a large percentage of patients and reduces diabetes-related mortality. The emergence of new therapies raises the possibility of changing the current glucose-centred therapeutic strategy for a weight-centred approach.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus is currently the most frequent chronic metabolic disease. In spain, according to the di@bet.es study, its prevalence is 13.8% in the adult population (although it is undiagnosed in 6%). The main risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus is obesity. The severity of type 2 diabetes mellitus is determined not only by the presence of hyperglycaemia, but also by the coexistence of other risk factors such as hypertension or dyslipidaemia, which are often associated with the disease. Its impact on the presence of chronic diabetic complications varies. While hyperglycaemia mainly influences the presence of microvascular complications, hypertension, dyslipidaemia and smoking play a greater role in macrovascular atherosclerotic disease. One of the most powerful ways to study the epidemiology of the disease is through the use of large databases that analyse the situation in the routine clinical management of huge numbers of patients. Recently, the data provided by the e-Management Project, based on the SIDIAP database, have allowed updating of many data on the health care of diabetic persons in Catalonia. This not only allows determination of the epidemiology of the disease but is also a magnificent starting point for the design of future studies that will provide answers to more questions. However, the use of large databases is not free of certain problems, especially those concerning the reliability of registries. This article analyses some of the data obtained by the e-Management study and other spanish epidemiological studies of equal importance.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) was a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, yet the prevalence of MetS among nonagenarians and centenarians was rarely reported. Here we investigated the prevalence of MetS and its components among nonagenarians and centenarians in our Zhuang population from Bama, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China.

Muscle wasting is associated with increased risk for mortality. There is no agreed universal definition for muscle wasting (sarcopenia), and we wished to determine whether using different criteria altered the prevalence in patients treated by peritoneal dialysis.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate some indicators of redox status, and inflammation on different regions of the central nervous system (CNS) of obese rats treated with green tea (GT). We hypothesized that obesity could affect the redox balance in different brain regions due to the diverse nature of the cells as well as the selective neuronal vulnerability to oxidative stress, and GT could triggers benefits effects restoring the redox status.

To examine the association of obesity on healthcare resource utilization and costs in a Medicare population.

Engagement in leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) is protective against cognitive decline whereas obesity and sedentary behaviors are associated with impairments in perceived cognitive function. Currently, little is known about how these relationships vary across the lifespan. This study investigated the inter-relationships between LTPA, leisure-time sedentary time (LTST), body mass index (BMI), and perceived cognitive functioning in younger and older Canadian adults.

Evolving animal studies and limited epidemiological data show that prenatal air pollution exposure is associated with childhood obesity. Timing of exposure and child sex may play an important role in these associations. We applied an innovative method to examine sex-specific sensitive prenatal windows of exposure to PM2.5 on anthropometric measures in preschool-aged children.

Folliculostellate cell gap junctions establish a network for the transmission of information within the anterior pituitary. Connexins make up gap junction channels. Changes in connexin (Cx) turnover modify gap junction-mediated intercellular communication. We have reported that cytokines and hormones influence Cx43 turnover and coupling in folliculostellate cells and in the folliculostellate cell line TtT/GF. In addition, the expression of different connexins alters intercellular communication and connexins may have functions besides cell coupling. Here we assessed the expression, turnover and subcellular localization of Cx46 and Cx50 in the anterior pituitary and TtT/GF cells. Then, we assessed the impact of various natural (lactation, annual reproductive cycle, bFGF) and pathological (autoimmune orchitis, diabetes/obesity) conditions associated with altered anterior pituitary hormone secretion on Cx46 and Cx50. Anterior pituitary Cx46 and Cx50 expression and subcellular distribution were cell-dependent. Cx46 was expressed by folliculostellate, TtT/GF and endocrine cells. In the cytoplasm, Cx46 was chiefly associated with lysosomes. Variously sized Cx46 molecules were recovered exclusively in the TtT/GF cell nuclear fraction. In the nucleus, Cx46 co-localized with Nopp-140, a nucleolar factor involved in rRNA processing. Neither cytoplasmic nor nuclear Cx46 and Cx43 co-localized. Cx50 localized to folliculostellate and TtT/GF cells, and to the walls of blood capillaries, not to endocrine cells. Cx50 was cytoplasmic and associated with the cell membrane, not nuclear. Cx50 did not co-localize with Cx46 but it co-localized in the cytoplasm and co-immunoprecipitated with Cx43. Cx46 and Cx50 responses to various physiological and pathological challenges were different, often opposite. Cx46 and Cx43 expression and phosphorylation profiles differed in the anterior pituitary, whereas Cx50 and Cx43 were similar. The data suggest that Cx46 participates to cellular growth and proliferation and that Cx50, together with Cx43, contributes to folliculostellate cell coupling.

It is well recognised that obesity increases the risk of premature death. A Body Shape Index (ABSI) is a formula that uses waist circumference (WC), body mass index (BMI) and height to predict risk of premature mortality, where a high score (Quartile 4) indicates that a person's WC is more than expected given their height and weight. Our study examines the association between ABSI quartiles and all-cause-, cardiovascular- and cancer-related mortality, and primary cause of death. Self-reported demographic and biomedically measured health-related risk factor and weight data was from the baseline stage of the North West Adelaide Health Study (1999-2003, n = 4056), a longitudinal cohort of Australian adults. Death-related information was obtained from the National Death Index. Primary cause of death across ABSI quartiles was examined. The association between mortality and ABSI (quartile and continuous scores) was investigated using a Cox proportional hazards survival model and adjusting for socioeconomic, and self-reported and biomedical risk factors. The proportion of all three types of mortality steadily increased from ABSI Quartile 1 through to Quartile 4. After adjusting for demographic and health-related risk factors, the risk of all-cause mortality was higher for people in ABSI Quartile 4 (HR 2.64, 95% CI 01.56-4.47), and ABSI Quartile 3 (HR 1.95, 95% CI 1.15-3.33), with a moderate association for the continuous ABSI score (HR 1.32, 95% CI 1.18-1.48). ABSI is therefore positively associated with mortality in Australian adults. Different combined measures of obesity such as the ABSI are useful in examining mortality risk.

The aim of this study was to investigate changes in plasma fatty acids proportions and estimated desaturase activities for variable grading of liver steatosis in children.

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends infant-parent room-sharing until age 1. We assessed the association between room-sharing and sleep outcomes.

Metformin has shown its effectiveness in treating obesity in adults. However, little research has been conducted in children, with a lack of attention on pubertal status. The objectives were to determine whether oral metformin treatment reduces BMI z score, cardiovascular risk, and inflammation biomarkers in children who are obese depending on pubertal stage and sex.

The lifestyle factors of physical activity, sedentary behaviour, and diet are increasingly being studied for their associations with cancer. Physical activity is inversely associated with and sedentary behaviour is positively (and independently) associated with an increased risk of more than ten types of cancer, including colorectal cancer (and advanced adenomas), endometrial cancers, and breast cancer. The most consistent dietary risk factor for premalignant and invasive breast cancer is alcohol, whether consumed during early or late adult life, even at low levels. Epidemiological studies show that the inclusion of wholegrain, fibre, fruits, and vegetables within diets are associated with reduced cancer risk, with diet during early life (age <8 years) having the strongest apparent association with cancer incidence. However, randomised controlled trials of diet-related factors have not yet shown any conclusive associations between diet and cancer incidence. Obesity is a key contributory factor associated with cancer risk and mortality, including in dose-response associations in endometrial and post-menopausal breast cancer, and in degree and duration of fatty liver disease-related hepatocellular carcinoma. Obesity produces an inflammatory state, characterised by macrophages clustered around enlarged hypertrophied, dead, and dying adipocytes, forming crown-like structures. Increased concentrations of aromatase and interleukin 6 in inflamed breast tissue and an increased number of macrophages, compared with healthy tissue, are also observed in women with normal body mass index, suggesting a metabolic obesity state. Emerging randomised controlled trials of physical activity and dietary factors and mechanistic studies of immunity, inflammation, extracellular matrix mechanics, epigenetic or transcriptional regulation, protein translation, circadian disruption, and interactions of the multibiome with lifestyle factors will be crucial to advance this field.

It is unclear if muscle strength, another index of fitness, which confers the protection from cardiometabolic risk in adults, is associated with similar protection in children and youth. The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between handgrip strength and cardiometabolic health in a large Canadian sample of children and youth.

Childhood obesity is associated with increased risk of long-term health consequences. Despite the wealth of research, prevalence rates are still high, particularly among lower-income groups. Little is known about variations in risk of overweight/obesity across income gradients and the adolescent developmental stage. This study examines the association between distal community factors and adolescent weight status across income gradients and whether this association is moderated by age.

Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a hepatokine, myokine and adipokine of a potent influence to energy homeostasis. Data according its serum concentrations in AN are contradictory.

Patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) are at risk of vascular and metabolic complications due to steroid therapy and increased adrenal androgens exposure.

The aim was to compare the effect of an anthocyanin-rich extract from purple corn pericarp (PCW) and pure anthocyanins on adipogenesis, inflammation and insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes on basal and inflammatory conditions.

Epidemiologic studies suggest a link between excess sugar consumption and obesity, fatty liver disease, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. One important pathway that may link these metabolic diseases to sugar consumption is hepatic conversion of sugar to fat, a process known as de novo lipogenesis (DNL). Mechanistic studies have shown that diets high in simple sugars increase both DNL and liver fat. Importantly, removal of sugar from diets of children with obesity for only 9 days consistently reduced DNL and liver fat and improved glucose and lipid metabolism. Although the sugar and beverage industries continue to question the scientific evidence linking high-sugar diets to metabolic diseases, major health organizations now make evidence-based recommendations to limit consumption of simple sugars to no more than 5% to 10% of daily intake. Clear recommendation about moderating sugar intake to patients may be an important nonpharmacologic tool to include in clinical practice.

Obesity is a major health concern in the United States, and its prevalence continues to rise. Although it is a common health issue, many people, including health care professionals, are biased against people with obesity.

Obesity is associated with an increase in cancer-specific mortality in women with breast cancer. Elevated cholesterol, particularly low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), is frequently seen in obese women. Here, we aimed to determine the importance of elevated circulating LDL, and LDL receptor (LDLR) expression in tumor cells, on the growth of breast cancer using mouse models of hyperlipidemia. We describe two novel immunodeficient mouse models of hyperlipidemia (Rag1(-/)(-)/LDLR(-/)(-) and Rag1(-/)(-)/ApoE (apolipoprotein E)(-/)(-) mice) in addition to established immunocompetent LDLR(-/)(-) and ApoE(-/)(-) mice. The mice were used to study the effects of elevated LDL-C in human triple-negative (MDA-MB-231) and mouse Her2/Neu-overexpressing (MCNeuA) breast cancers. Tumors derived from MCNeuA and MDA-MB-231 cells had high LDLR expression and formed larger tumors in mice with high circulating LDL-C concentrations than in mice with lower LDL-C. Silencing the LDLR in the tumor cells led to decreased growth of Her2/Neu-overexpressing tumors in LDLR(-/)(-) and ApoE(-/)(-) mice, with increased Caspase 3 cleavage. Additionally, in vitro, silencing the LDLR led to decreased cell survival in serum-starved conditions, associated with Caspase 3 cleavage. Examining publically available human data sets, we found that high LDLR expression in human breast cancers was associated with decreased recurrence-free survival, particularly in patients treated with systemic therapies. Overall, our results highlight the importance of the LDLR in the growth of triple-negative and HER2-overexpressing breast cancers in the setting of elevated circulating LDL-C, which may be important contributing factors to the increased recurrence and mortality in obese women with breast cancer.Oncogene advance online publication, 31 July 2017; doi:10.1038/onc.2017.247.

Accumulating evidence links obesity with low-grade inflammation which may originate from adipose tissue that secretes a plethora of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines termed adipokines. Adiponectin and leptin have evolved as crucial signals in many obesity-related pathologies including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Whereas adiponectin deficiency might be critically involved in the pro-inflammatory state associated with obesity and related disorders, overproduction of leptin, a rather pro-inflammatory mediator, is considered of equal relevance. An imbalanced adipokine profile in obesity consecutively contributes to metabolic inflammation in NAFLD, which is associated with a substantial risk for developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) also in the non-cirrhotic stage of disease. Both adiponectin and leptin have been related to liver tumorigenesis especially in preclinical models. This review covers recent advances in our understanding of some adipokines in NAFLD and associated HCC.

The flavonoid quercetin (3,3',4',5,7-pentahydroxyflavone) is widely distributed in plants, foods, and beverages. This polyphenol compound exhibits varied biological actions such as antioxidant, radical-scavenging, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antiviral, gastroprotective, immune-modulator, and finds also application in the treatment of obesity, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Besides, quercetin can prevent neurological disorders and exerts protection against mitochondrial damages. Various in vitro studies have assessed the anticancer effects of quercetin, although there are no conclusive data regarding its mode of action. However, low bioavailability, poor aqueous solubility as well as rapid body clearance, fast metabolism and enzymatic degradation hamper the use of quercetin as therapeutic agent, so intense research efforts have been focused on the modification of the quercetin scaffold to obtain analogs with potentially improved properties for clinical applications. This review gives an overview of the developments in the synthesis and anticancer-related activities of quercetin derivatives reported from 2012 to 2016.

Obesity is increasing worldwide among children and adolescents, and has been associated with an increased incidence of asthma. However, the mechanisms underlying this association are incompletely understood.

Studies have demonstrated a relationship between adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and adult obesity. Group interventions addressing the psychosocial sequelae of ACES using a trauma-informed approach for adults are well described in the literature. There is also a significant body of literature on the efficacy and proposed structure of interventions addressing weight reduction in adults. However, it is unknown how often interventions addressing attainment of a healthy weight incorporate a specific focus on adult women with a history of ACEs, including childhood abuse and trauma.

The Epstein-Barr virus is a human herpes virus with oncogenic potential. The virus-encoded nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2) is a key mediator of viral tumorigenesis. EBNA2 features an arginine-glycine (RG) repeat at amino acids (aa)339-354 that is essential for the transformation of lymphocytes and contains symmetrically (SDMA) and asymmetrically (ADMA) di-methylated arginine residues. The SDMA-modified EBNA2 binds the survival motor neuron protein (SMN), thus mimicking SMD3, a cellular SDMA-containing protein that interacts with SMN. Accordingly, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) specific for the SDMA-modified RG repeat of EBNA2 also binds to SMD3. With the novel mAb 19D4 we now show that EBNA2 contains mono-methylated arginine (MMA) residues within the RG repeat. Using 19D4, we immune-precipitated and analysed by mass spectrometry cellular proteins in EBV-transformed B-cells that feature MMA motifs that are similar to the one in EBNA2. Among the cellular proteins identified, we confirmed by immunoprecipitation and/or Western blot analyses Aly/REF, Coilin, DDX5, FXR1, HNRNPK, LSM4, MRE11, NRIP, nucleolin, PRPF8, RBM26, SMD1 (SNRDP1) and THRAP3 proteins that are either known to contain MMA residues or feature RG repeat sequences that probably serve as methylation substrates. The identified proteins are involved in splicing, tumorigenesis, transcriptional activation, DNA stability and RNA processing or export. Furthermore, we found that several proteins involved in energy metabolism are associated with MMA-modified proteins. Interestingly, the viral EBNA1 protein that features methylated RG repeat motifs also reacted with the antibodies. Our results indicate that the region between aa 34-52 of EBNA1 contains ADMA or SDMA residues, while the region between aa 328-377 mainly contains MMA residues.

Vitamin D deficiency (plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25(OH)D)70 % of participants were vitamin D deficient. No significant correlations and no biomarker differences across 25(OH)D quartiles or groups were seen except for total antioxidant status. A weak direct association (r 0·252, P<0·05) was observed between 25(OH)D and FRAP, and those in the lowest 25(OH)D quartile and group had significantly lower FRAP values. Results did not reveal a clear link between vitamin D status and oxidative stress biomarkers in the absence of advanced age, obesity and disease, though some evidence of depleted antioxidant status in those with vitamin D deficiency was seen. Poor antioxidant status may pre-date increased oxidative stress. Study of effects of correction of deficiency on antioxidant status and oxidative stress in vitamin D-deficient but otherwise healthy subjects is needed.

Content Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) results in physiological changes that markedly reduces whole-body metabolism, resulting in neurogenic obesity via adipose tissue accumulation. Adipose tissue has been implicated in the release of proinflammatory adipokines that lead to chronic, systemic inflammation, and evidence suggests these adipokines contribute to the pathogeneses of metabolic diseases that often accompany obesity. In this review, we propose the concept of neurogenic obesity through paralysis-induced adiposity as the primary source of systemic inflammation and metabolic dysfunction reported in chronic SCI. We also briefly discuss how exercise in SCI can attenuate the negative consequences of obesity-induced inflammation and its comorbidities. Methods A MEDLINE, PubMed, Google Scholar, and ClinicalKey search was performed using the following search terms: obesity, adiposity, adipose tissue, proinflammatory adipokines, proinflammatory cytokines, metabolic dysfunction, exercise, physical activity, and spinal cord injury. All papers identified were full-text, English language papers. The reference list of identified papers was also searched for additional papers. Results Research suggests that obesity in SCI results in a state of chronic, systemic inflammation primarily through proinflammatory adipokines secreted from excess adipose tissue. The reduction of adipose tissue through the use of diet and exercise demonstrates promise to combat neurogenic obesity, inflammation, and cardiometabolic dysfunction in SCI. Conclusion Proinflammatory adipokines may serve as biomarkers for the development of obesity-related complication in SCI. Mechanistic and interventional studies on neurogenic obesity-induced inflammation in chronic SCI are warranted.

The aim was to analyse the cost-effectiveness of an intensive weight-loss intervention for children compared with a low-intensity intervention.

In adolescence and obesity, the pathophysiology of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is very difficult to distinguish. We aimed to assess the diagnosis of PCOS in the population of obese adolescent.

Metabolomics is now widely used to characterize metabolic phenotypes associated with lifestyle risk factors such as obesity. The objective of the present study was to explore the associations of body mass index (BMI) with 145 metabolites measured in blood samples in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) study. Metabolites were measured in blood from 392 men from the Oxford (UK) cohort (EPIC-Oxford) and in 327 control subjects who were part of a nested case-control study on hepatobiliary carcinomas (EPIC-Hepatobiliary). Measured metabolites included amino acids, acylcarnitines, hexoses, biogenic amines, phosphatidylcholines, and sphingomyelins. Linear regression models controlled for potential confounders and multiple testing were run to evaluate the associations of metabolite concentrations with BMI. 40 and 45 individual metabolites showed significant differences according to BMI variations, in the EPIC-Oxford and EPIC-Hepatobiliary subcohorts, respectively. Twenty two individual metabolites (kynurenine, one sphingomyelin, glutamate and 19 phosphatidylcholines) were associated with BMI in both subcohorts. The present findings provide additional knowledge on blood metabolic signatures of BMI in European adults, which may help identify mechanisms mediating the relationship of BMI with obesity-related diseases.

To investigate the association between long-term weight change and blood metabolites.

The aim of this study was to determine the validity of energy intake (EI) estimations made using the remote food photography method (RFPM) compared to the doubly labeled water (DLW) method in minority preschool children in a free-living environment.

Noncommunicable diseases such as obesity have become a serious global public health epidemic. This study aimed to examine whether there was an association between early life factors (with a special focus on breastfeeding) BMI, waist circumference, and the metabolome in offspring at 20 years.

The goal of this study was to identify metabolites associated with metabolic risk, separately by sex, in Mexican adolescents.

A growing body of evidence from research in rodents and humans has identified insulin as an important neuoregulatory peptide in the brain, where it coordinates diverse aspects of energy balance and peripheral glucose homeostasis. This review discusses where and how insulin interacts within the brain and evaluates the physiological and pathophysiological consequences of central insulin signalling in metabolism, obesity and type 2 diabetes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Consumption of medium chain triglycerides (MCT) in overweight adults increases thermogenesis and improves weight management. Coconut oil is a rich natural source of MCT, but its thermogenic effect is unknown. Our study evaluated the effects of a test oil enriched in coconut oil, on energy expenditure, satiety, and metabolic markers in a randomized, double blind, cross-over study.

The relevance of adiponectin to insulin sensitivity has been elucidated over the last two decades. As a promoter of ceramide degradation, it works through its cognate receptors, AdipoR1 and AdipoR2, to alter bioactive sphingolipid species. Adiponectin diminishes the accumulation of ceramide, a lipid metabolite which can play a causal role in obesity-induced insulin resistance. Concurrently, adiponectin stimulates the production of sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a cyto-protective molecule that accentuates adiponectin's positive metabolic effects. This review focuses on recent work that solidifies knowledge of the adiponectin signaling pathway, gives new insight into some notable characteristics of adiponectin's receptors, and most importantly, affirms adiponectin receptor agonism as a viable therapeutic tool to combat elevated ceramide levels and improve insulin sensitivity in obese patients with type II diabetes.

The incidence of both type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and multiple cancer types are rapidly increasing worldwide. Several studies documented that T2DM is closely associated with an increased incidence of cancer. However, while some methodological considerations preclude a definitive association between T2DM and the risk of certain cancers, the relationship between T2DM and increased risk of incident hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains significant even after adjustment for detection bias and reverse causation, indicating that such association is clinically reliable and robust. In addition, a number of observational studies also showed that T2DM is associated with higher mortality among persons with HCC. Some recent meta-analyses suggested that treatment with metformin may be associated with a lower risk of HCC, and may also beneficially influence HCC prognosis, whereas treatment with sulphonylureas or insulin seems to be related to a higher HCC risk. The underlying biological mechanisms linking T2DM and HCC are complex and difficult to elucidate, but the existence of close inter-connections among T2DM, obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induces hepatic/systemic insulin resistance and causes the release of multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines, vasoactive factors and pro-oxidant molecules, which are all potentially implicated in the development and progression of HCC. In this clinical review, we discuss the epidemiological evidence linking T2DM to the risk of HCC. Moreover, we also briefly discuss the putative underlying mechanisms linking T2DM, NAFLD and HCC, and the potential effect of certain hypoglycemic agents on the risk of developing HCC.

High-dose radiation brachytherapy is a treatment for inoperable cervical and endometrial carcinoma. A general anesthetic is often utilized for patient comfort, facilitating patient transport to imaging resources, and allowing rapid discharge home after the procedure. Patient comorbidities, however, must be considered for every anesthetic performed. We describe a successful surgical epidural anesthetic for a patient with challenging comorbidities, including cardiac, pulmonary, and hematologic body systems.

Prolonged fasting in northern elephant seals (NES) is characterized by a reliance on lipid metabolism, conservation of protein, and reduced plasma insulin. During early fasting, glucose infusion previously reduced plasma free fatty acids (FFA); however, during late-fasting, it induced an atypical elevation in FFA despite comparable increases in insulin during both periods suggestive of a dynamic shift in tissue responsiveness to glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.

In Germany the rate of deliveries by cesarean section is continually increasing. Many different reasons have been put forward to explain this trend. The aim of this study was to examine how the C-section rate developed at the University Gynecology Clinic Rostock, one of the biggest maternity hospitals and level I perinatal centers in Germany, based on various maternal and neonatal parameters. The aim was also to identify potential risk factors for C-sections.

Birth by Cesarean section (C-section) may increase the risk for non-communicable diseases. We aimed to examine the relation of birth by C-section with offspring overweight and markers of cardio-metabolic risk in a prospective observational cohort with 20-years of follow-up.

Prevalence of obesity and related diseases are quickly reaching epidemic proportions among Hispanic males in the U.S. Hispanic males suffer from the highest prevalence of obesity-related diseases when compared to all other racial/ethnic groups. Despite evidence showing that weight loss can significantly reduce the risk of obesity-related negative health implications, literature informing best practices to engage Hispanic males in weight management programs is scarce.

The life-course development of body mass index (BMI) may be driven by interactions between genes and obesity-inducing social environments. We examined whether lower parental or own education accentuates the genetic risk for higher BMI over the life course, and whether diet and physical activity account for the educational differences in genetic associations with BMI.

Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide with various physiological functions including regulation of smooth-muscle contraction, blood pressure, stress responses, and feeding behaviors. NMU activates two distinct receptors, NMUR1 and NMUR2, which are predominantly expressed in peripheral tissues and the central nervous system, respectively. It is reported that the NMU signaling system regulates food intake and body weight via NMUR2, suggesting that an NMUR2 agonist exhibiting anorectic effects would be a potential therapy for obesity.

Little evidence exists on which variables of body composition or muscular strength mediates more glucose control improvements taking into account inter-individual metabolic variability to different modes of exercise training.

The Obesity Reduction and Awareness of Non-communicable disease through Group Education (ORANGE) Phase II program, is a school-based intervention aimed at healthy lifestyle practices for sixth and seventh grade adolescents (n = 2345) attending private (n = 1811) and government (n = 534) schools in Chennai. The objectives of this paper are (a) to describe the intervention activities and their outcomes qualitatively and (b) to report changes in body mass index (BMI) of the intervention group participants. This intervention strategy used a teacher-peer-training model in each school for long-term sustainability of the lessons learned from this program. During each intervention session, teachers led a classroom discussion on the health topic of interest, and peers facilitated small-group learning activities. Anthropometric measurements of participants were assessed pre- and post-intervention. We found government school students perceived hygienic actions (e.g., drinking clean water, taking baths daily) as healthy habits for preventing diabetes, whereas private school students associated an expensive lifestyle (e.g., eating at restaurants, riding a car) with diabetes prevention. Overall, the mean post-intervention BMI (18.3 kg/m2) was in the normal range compared to the pre-intervention BMI (17.7 kg/m2) (p < 0.0001). These results suggest that future interventions should be tailored for adolescents from different socio-economic groups while acknowledging their varied perceptions.

Cereal foods fermented by lactic acid bacteria are staples in many countries around the world particularly in developing countries, but some aspects of the nutritional and health benefits of traditional fermented foods in developing countries have not been sufficiently investigated compared to fermented foods in high-income countries. Today, malnutrition worldwide is characterized by a double burden, excess leading to non-communicable diseases like obesity or diabetes alongside micronutrient deficiencies. In addition, populations in developing countries suffer from infectious and parasitic diseases that can jeopardize the health benefits provided by their traditional fermented foods. Using examples, we argue that research on traditional fermented cereals in developing countries should focus more on their effect on inflammation and oxidative stress under conditions including infectious or non-infectious gut inflammation.

D-Allulose-containing rare sugar sweeteners have been categorized into two types, rare sugar syrup (RSS), consisting of 4 rare monosaccharides, and modified glucose syrup (MGS), rich in D-allulose, which was previously referred to D-psicose. The anti-obesity effect of RSS and D-allulose has been already clarified, but that of rare monosaccharides other than D-allulose in RSS has not yet been well understood. Here, we investigated and compared the anti-obesity effect of RSS and MGS in rats. Male Wistar rats were divided into 4 dietary groups: a high-sucrose control diet group (S), a high-fructose corn syrup diet group (HFCS), an RSS diet group (RSS), and an MGS diet group (MGS). RSS significantly suppressed abdominal adipose tissue weight and total body fat accumulation in comparison to sucrose. On the other hand, MGS reduced body weight gain, but not abdominal fat accumulation, relative to sucrose. The weight of the liver and kidneys was significantly higher in the RSS and MGS groups than in the S and HFCS groups, but serum biochemical parameters and hepatic lipids contents were not significantly different among the groups. The present study shows that two types of D-allulose-containing rare sugar sweeteners can suppress body fat accumulation or weight gain in a different manner and that RSS could be used as more effective sweeteners in place of sucrose and HFCS to maintain healthy body weight.

Jujube (Ziziphus jujuba Mill.), a traditional folk medicine and functional food in China and South Korea, is known for its beneficial properties, which include anti-cancer, anti-oxidative, and anti-obesity effects. To assess the anti-hyperglycemic effect of jujube in this study, we investigated the glucose uptake-promoting activity of jujube in rat L6 myotubes. After determining that the jujube extract induces muscle glucose uptake, we identified the following active compounds by bioassay-guided fractionation: betulonic acid, betulinic acid, and oleanonic acid. Ursonic acid, known to be present in jujube, was semi-synthesized from ursolic acid and also observed to enhance glucose uptake. These four triterpenic acids induced glucose uptake in a glucose transporter 4-dependent manner. Comparison experiments of jujube fruits from three countries, namely, China, South Korea, and Japan, revealed that Japanese jujube has a higher content of active triterpenoids and is the most potent enhancer of glucose uptake.

Unhealthy behaviors and lifestyle choices are contributing to the obesity epidemic and associated morbidities. Among reproductive aged women, obesity adversely affects perinatal outcomes and longer term maternal and child health. Interventions utilizing strategies of behavior change have the potential to improve outcomes, especially during pregnancy. Antenatal interventions to improve adherence to gestational weight gain guidelines are one such example. Although behaviorally-based intervention trials have been associated with modest decreases in gestational weight gain, the effect on short term perinatal outcomes has thus far been minimal. This commentary aims to discuss possible reasons behind the failure to improve perinatal outcomes as well as to encourage future areas of study.

The survival rate of lung cancer remains low despite the progress of surgery and chemotherapy. With the increasing comorbidity of obesity in lung cancer patients, new challenges emerge in the management of this patient population. A key issue of interest is the prognostic effect of obesity on surgical and chemotherapeutical outcomes in lung cancer patients, which is fueled by the growing observation of survival benefits in overweight or obese patients. This unexpected inverse relation between obesity and lung cancer mortality, called 'obesity paradox', remains poorly understood. In recent years, evolving insights into the heterogeneity of obesity phenotypes and associated biological connections with lung cancer progression may help explain some of the seemingly paradoxical relationship, and well-designed clinical studies looking at the causal role of obesity-associated molecules are expected. Here, we examine potential biological mechanisms behind the protective effects of obesity in lung cancer. We highlight the need to clarify the clinical implications of this relation towards an updated intervention strategy in the clinical care of lung cancer patients with obesity.

Obesity associated insulin resistance (IR) is implicated in chronic inflammation that mediated by the immune system. Imbalance between anti-inflammatory and pro-inflammatory response contributes to the origins and drivers of IR. However, cells of innate and adaptive immune system participate in the pathogenesis of IR, while glucose homeostasis related immune tolerance could be compromised high fat diet (HFD) reduced metabolic disorder. Although previous studies have demonstrated that anti-inflammatory therapy has a protective role in alleviating the pro-inflammatory status in HFD induced IR, the precise mechanism is still unclear. Ploy (I:C) is a synthetic double-stranded RNA that activates innate and/or adaptive immune response via retinoic acid-inducible gene-I (RIG-I), toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) and melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5 (MDA5). In the present study, we initially perform a novel research on the relationship between Poly (I:C) preconditioning and improved glucose metabolism in obesity related IR. Interestingly, Poly (I:C) treatment has alleviated the pro-inflammatory status and promoted glucose homeostasis during a HFD feeding. Improved insulin sensitivity is consistent with enhanced immune tolerance, which accompanied with increased Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs). Of note, Tregs have a pivotal role in orchestrating the self-balance between autoimmunity and inflammation reaction. Thus, our findings reveal that Ploy (I:C) preconditioning prevents HFD induced glucose intolerance, which may be recognized as vaccination by the host. Overall, selectively targeting precise immune regulators may lead to new classes of potentially meaningful therapies for IR in the clinical trials.

Human and animal studies indicate that maternal obesity can negatively impact aspects of metabolism and neurodevelopment in the offspring. Not known, however, is whether maternal exercise can alter these adverse outcomes. In this study, Long-Evans female rats were provided a high fat (60%; HFD) or control diet (CD) 44days before mating and throughout gestation and lactation. Running wheels were available to half of each diet group during the gestational period only, resulting in four conditions: CD diet with (CDRW) or without (sedentary; CDSED) exercise, and HFD with (HFRW) or without (HFSED) exercise. Only male offspring (one per litter) were available for this study: they were put on control diet two weeks after weaning and examined using behavioral evaluations up to four months of age. Before weaning, offspring of CDRW dams weighed less than offspring from CDSED or HFD dams. After weaning, the lower weight in CDRW offspring generally persisted. Adult offspring from HFSED dams performed worse than the HFRW group in a Morris water maze during initial spatial training as well as reversal learning; memory was not impacted. No differences between groups were seen in tests of novel object recognition, social approach, or chocolate milk preference. Thus, maternal diet and exercise produced differential effects on body weights and cognitive behaviors in the offspring, and the data demonstrate a positive impact of maternal exercise on the offspring in that it ameliorated some deleterious behavioral effects of a maternal high fat diet.

The aim of the current work was to test whether increased intake of dietary fat and sucrose in mice modifies the response of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of the optic nerve to injury, and whether any effects of diet are influenced by physical activity levels. C57BL/6J mice were given a high-fat high-sucrose (HFS) diet for 7 weeks, with or without exposure to regular exercise by swimming (60 min/day, 5 days/week). Injury to RGCs was subsequently induced by acute elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) and retinas were assessed for function and structure. We report that mice on a HFS diet had similar body mass and blood glucose levels compared to mice on a control diet but suffered a 30% greater loss of RGC function following injury, as measured in vivo with the electroretinogram. RGC dysfunction in retinas from mice on the HFS diet was accompanied by activation of retinal macroglia but was not associated with neuronal cell loss. Exercising mice by swimming did not prevent HFS-induced RGC dysfunction in response to injury. This study shows for the first time that a short term increase in dietary fat and sucrose enhances the vulnerability of RGCs to dysfunction and cell stress after an acute injury, and that this is independent of obesity or hyperglycemia. Furthermore, our results suggest that detrimental effects of diet predominate over protective effects of exercise.

To compare the efficacy of a double-balloon catheter versus vaginal prostaglandin E2 (dinoprostone) for cervical ripening in obese patients with unfavorable cervix at term.

Lifestyle factors, such as diet, body weight, and physical activity, are linked to better survival after breast cancer (BC) diagnosis. A high percentage of the Malaysian population is overweight or obese. In addition, studies have shown a disparity in survival among Malaysian women compared with other higher-income countries. The Malaysian Breast Cancer Survivorship Cohort (MyBCC) study aims to study lifestyle factors that affect survival in BC survivors. These are the preliminary findings on the nutritional status of Malaysian BC survivors.

To prove that phosphodiesterase type-4 inhibitors could potentially treat obesity-associated overactive bladder through modulation of the systemic inflammatory response.

Although lumbar disc herniations are common, only a small portion of these herniations lead to cauda equina syndrome (CES) which is an uncommon but debilitating disorder. Why some patients with herniation develop CES, when most do not, remains unknown. Pre-existing subclinical epidural lipomatosis may limit canal space such that an otherwise benign herniation causes CES.

Asthma morbidity is increased among older adults, especially older adult women. Interventions to improve asthma control in this population are not well described.

Bile acids have been proposed as key mediators of the metabolic effects after bariatric surgery. Currently no reports on bile acid profiles after duodenal switch exist, and long-term data after gastric bypass are lacking.

Metabolic disorders including obesity, diabetes and hyperlipidemia are the most important human health problems.

Obesity is regulated by different metabolic factors like leptin, adiponectin insulin and neuropeptide orexin-A. The aim of this study is to assess the role of these hormones and their interrelationship with obesity in north Indian women.

Gene expression data provides one tool to gain further insight into the complex biological interactions linking obesity and metabolic disease. This study examined associations between blood gene expression profiles and metabolic disease in obesity.

Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is increasingly being used to assess abnormalities in body composition associated with a wide variety of conditions including obesity, sarcopenia, diabetes, anorexia, human immunodeficiency virus lipodystrophy, malabsorption and neuromuscular disorders. The objective of this study was to determine the short-term in vivo precision and least significant change in serial body composition measurements provided by the Hologic Horizon A densitometer as there is no published, peer reviewed body composition precision data on Horizon scanners in the medical literature.

Notwithstanding the presence of hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, or both, obesity is associated with increased left ventricular (LV) mass. The effects of bariatric surgery on LV mass have been sparsely investigated by M-mode and two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography. Overall, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, adjustable gastric banding, and sleeve gastrectomy reduce LV mass. However, the reduction in LV mass is extremely variable. Besides duration and severity of obesity, presence of hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea or both, and type of surgical procedures, the inaccuracy of M-mode and 2D echocardiography for assessment of LV mass contributes to the variable effects of bariatric surgery on LV mass. Three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography may obviate the limitations of M-mode 2D echocardiography for assessment of LV mass and allow an accurate appraisal of the effects of bariatric surgery on LV mass.

Preoperative weight loss regimens prior to bariatric surgery have been a routine and common practice for many centers, in the US and around the world. The mandated participation in such programs has largely been influenced by loco-regional payer requirements. The relationship between adherence to a mandatory weight loss regimen and achieved preoperative weight loss as well as the clinical impact of preoperative weight loss on bariatric outcomes remains uncertain.

This review examines the risk of obesity in migrant groups-specifically migrants from countries with lower prevalence of obesity to countries with higher prevalence of obesity. We examine obesity prevalence within migrant groups compared with native populations and the evidence on factors that might shape obesity risk in these migrant groups.

Severe childhood obesity, defined as having a body mass index (BMI) greater than the 99th percentile for age and gender, is rising in most countries and is associated with early morbidity and mortality. Optimal management of the health of the child with obesity requires a multidisciplinary approach that identifies and treats associated derangements.

Albeit essential for perpetuation of species, reproduction is an energy-demanding function that can be adjusted to body metabolic status. Reproductive maturation and function can be suppressed in conditions of energy deficit, but can be altered also in situations of persistent energy excess, e.g., morbid obesity. This metabolic-reproductive integration, of considerable pathophysiological relevance to explain different forms of perturbed puberty and sub/infertility, is implemented by the concerted action of numerous central and peripheral regulators, which impinge at different levels of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis, permitting a tight fit between nutritional/energy status and gonadal function. We summarize here the major physiological mechanisms whereby nutritional and metabolic cues modulate the maturation and function of the HPG axis. We will focus on recent progress on the major central neuropeptide pathways, including kisspeptins, neurokinin B and the products of POMC and NPY neurons, which convey metabolic information to GnRH neurons, as major hierarchical hub of our reproductive brain.

Systemic changes during diabetes such as high glucose, dyslipidemia, hormonal changes and low grade inflammation, are believed to induce structural and functional changes in the cardiomyocyte associated with the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. One of the hallmarks of the diabetic heart is increased oxidative stress. NADPH-oxidases (NOXs) are important ROS-producing enzymes in the cardiomyocyte mediating both adaptive and maladaptive changes in the heart. NOXs have been suggested as a therapeutic target for several diabetic complications, but their role in diabetic cardiomyopathy is far from elucidated. In this review we aim to provide an overview of the current knowledge regarding the understanding of how NOXs influences cardiac adaptive and maladaptive processes in a "diabetic milieu". This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: The role of post-translational protein modifications on heart and vascular metabolism edited by Jason R.B. Dyck & Jan F.C. Glatz.

The laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LAGB) was approved for use in the United States in 2001 and has been shown to be a safe and effective surgical treatment for morbid obesity. However, there is a recent trend towards reduction in the use of LAGB nationwide. The objective of this study was to examine the prevalence and outcomes of primary LAGB implantation compared to revision/explantation at academic centers.

The objectives of this study were: 1) To compare the prevalence of cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors among different phenotypes of Spondyloarthritis (SpA); 2) To assess the differences in cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors between two geographical areas, i.e. Northern Europe vs. Mediterranean region; 3) To identify potential predictive factors for high Framingham Risk Score regarding disease features in SpA and geographical area.

Plasma angiopoietin-like 2 (Angptl2), a proinflammatory protein, has been associated with obesity and diabetes. Whether weight loss induced by bariatric surgery and associated improvement of the cardiometabolic risk profile influence circulating Angptl2 levels is unknown. We tested whether biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch (BPD-DS) surgery alters plasma Angptl2 concentrations.

Significant attempts are being made to generate multifunctional, hybrid or peptide combinations as novel therapeutic strategies for type 2 diabetes, however this presents key challenges including design and pharmaceutical development. In this study, we evaluated metabolic properties of oral nutritional supplement epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) in combination with GLP-1 agonist exendin-4 in a mouse model of dietary-induced diabetes and obesity.

The use of steviol glycosides as non-caloric sweeteners has proven to be beneficial for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), obesity, and metabolic syndrome. However, recent data demonstrate that steviol and stevioside might act as glucocorticoid receptor (GR) agonists and thus correlate with adverse effects on metabolism. Herein, we evaluated the impact of steviol, steviol glycosides, and a Greek-derived stevia extract on a number of key steps of GR signaling cascade in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and in Jurkat leukemia cells. Our results revealed that none of the tested compounds altered the expression of primary GR-target genes (GILZ, FKPB5), GR protein levels or GR subcellular localization in PBMCs; those compounds increased GILZ and FKPB5 mRNA levels as well as GRE-mediated luciferase activity, inducing in parallel GR nuclear translocation in Jurkat cells. The GR-modulatory activity demonstrated by stevia-compounds in Jurkat cells but not in PBMCs may be due to a cell-type specific effect.

Rates of adolescent obesity and overweight are high. The offspring of overweight parents are at increased risk of becoming obese later in life. Investigating neural correlates of familial obesity risk and current overweight status in adolescence could help identify biomarkers that predict future obesity and that may serve as novel targets for obesity interventions.

In the last decade the Military Health System has changed its paradigm to focus on health promotion and disease prevention.

South Asian populations develop insulin resistance from a young age. Poor intrauterine growth and increased rates of post natal growth predisposes to develop insulin resistance later in life. This study identifies insulin resistance and relation to birth weight among a group of 5-15 year old children of urban Sri Lanka.

YY-312 is a herbal extract powder from Imperata cylindrica Beauvois, Citrus unshiu Markovich, and Evodia officinalis Dode, which have health promoting effects, including body fat reduction. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of YY-312 for body fat reduction in overweight adults.

Hypoxia Inducible Factor 3 Alpha Subunit (HIF3A) DNA has been demonstrated to be associated with obesity in the methylation level, and it also has a Body Mass Index (BMI)-independent association with plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT). However, the relation among obesity, plasma ALT, HIF3A polymorphism and methylation remains unclear. This study aims to identify the association between HIF3A polymorphism and plasma ALT, and further to determine whether the effect of HIF3A polymorphism on ALT could be modified by obesity or mediated by DNA methylation.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterised by hyperglycaemia resulting from defective insulin secretion, insulin resistance, or both. The impact of over-nutrition and reduced physical activity, evidenced by the exponential rise in obesity and the prevalence of T2D, strongly supports the implementation of lifestyle modification programs. Accordingly, an increased consumption of fruits and plant-derived foods has been advocated, as their intake is inversely correlated with T2D prevalence; this has been attributed, in part, to their contained polyphenolic compounds. Over the last decade, a body of work has focussed on establishing the mechanisms by which polyphenolic compounds exert beneficial effects to limit carbohydrate digestion, enhance insulin-mediated glucose uptake, down-regulate hepatic gluconeogenesis and decrease oxidative stress; the latter anti-oxidative property being the most documented. Novel effects on the inhibition of glucocorticoid action and the suppression of amylin misfolding and aggregation have been identified more recently. Amyloid fibrils form from spontaneously misfolded amylin, depositing in islet cells to elicit apoptosis, beta cell degeneration and decrease insulin secretion, with amyloidosis affecting up to 80% of pancreatic islet cells in T2D. Therefore, intervening with polyphenolic compounds offers a novel approach to suppressing risk or progression to T2D. This review gives an update on the emerging mechanisms related to dietary polyphenol intake for the maintenance of glycaemic control and the prevention of T2D.

Quercetin (Q) and green tea extract (E) are reported to counter insulin resistance and inflammation and favorably alter fat metabolism. We investigated whether a mixture of E + Q (EQ) could synergistically influence metabolic and inflammation endpoints in a high-fat diet (HFD) fed to mice. Male C57BL/6 mice (n = 40) were put on HFD (fat = 60%kcal) for 12 weeks and randomly assigned to Q (25 mg/kg of body weight (BW)/day), E (3 mg of epigallocatechin gallate/kg BW/day), EQ, or control groups for four weeks. At 16 weeks, insulin sensitivity was measured via the glucose tolerance test (GTT), followed by area-under-the-curve (AUC) estimations. Plasma cytokines and quercetin were also measured, along with whole genome transcriptome analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) on adipose, liver, and skeletal muscle tissues. Univariate analyses were conducted via analysis of variance (ANOVA), and whole-genome expression profiles were examined via gene set enrichment. At 16 weeks, plasma quercetin levels were higher in Q and EQ groups vs. the control and E groups (p < 0.05). Plasma cytokines were similar among groups (p > 0.05). AUC estimations for GTT was 14% lower for Q vs. E (p = 0.0311), but non-significant from control (p = 0.0809). Genes for cholesterol metabolism and immune and inflammatory response were downregulated in Q and EQ groups vs. control in adipose tissue and soleus muscle tissue. These data support an anti-inflammatory role for Q and EQ, a result best captured when measured with tissue gene downregulation in comparison to changes in plasma cytokine levels.

ETS-related gene (ERG) oncogenic activation is the most common genomic alteration in prostate cancer (CaP) although it occurs less frequently in African American (AA) versus Caucasian (CA) patients, and the potential role of ERG as a prognostic marker has not been confirmed.

Obesity and aggressive prostate cancer (PC) may be linked, but how local peri-prostatic fat relates to tumour response following androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is unknown.

The urinary tract, previously considered a sterile body niche, has emerged as the host of an array of bacteria in healthy individuals, revolutionizing the urology research field.

Overweight and obesity are a particular concern for women of reproductive age. They not only increase the risk of chronic diseases but they are also associated with adverse perinatal, neonatal, infant and child outcomes. The objective of this study was to examine the trend of overweight and obesity among Bangladeshi women of reproductive age between 2004 and 2014.

During obesity, adipose tissue macrophages (ATM) are increased in concert with local inflammation and insulin resistance. Since the levels of sphingolipid (SLs) in adipose tissue (AT) are altered during obesity we investigated the potential impact of SLs on ATMs. For this, we first analyzed expression of SL metabolizing genes in ATMs isolated from obese mice. A marked induction of sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1) expression was observed in obese ATM when compared to lean ATM. This induction was observed in both MGL-ve (M1) and MGL1+ve (M2) macrophages from obese WAT. Next, RAW264.7 cells were exposed to excessive palmitate, resulting in a similar induction of Sphk1. This Sphk1 induction was also observed when cells were treated with chloroquine, a lysosomotropic amine impacting lysosome function. Simultaneous incubation of RAW cells with palmitate and the Sphk1 inhibitor SK1-I promoted cell death, suggesting a protective role of Sphk1 during lipotoxic conditions. Interestingly, a reduction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress related genes was detected in obese ATM and was found to be associated with elevated Sphk1 expression. Altogether, our data suggest that lipid overload in ATM induces Sphk1, which promotes cell viability.

The lifestyle behaviours of early adolescents, including diet, physical activity, sleep, and screen usage, are well established contributors to health. These behaviours have also been shown to be associated with academic achievement. Poor academic achievement can additionally contribute to poorer health over the lifespan. This study aims to characterize the associations between health behaviours and self-reported academic achievement.

To investigate the efficacy and safety of empagliflozin in subgroups based on body mass index (BMI) and age, using a pooled data set from Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).

Hunger, driven by negative energy balance, elicits the search for and consumption of food. While this response is in part mediated by neurons in the hypothalamus, the role of specific cell types in other brain regions is less well defined. Here, we show that neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus, expressing vesicular transporters for GABA or glutamate (hereafter, DRN(Vgat) and DRN(VGLUT3) neurons), are reciprocally activated by changes in energy balance and that modulating their activity has opposite effects on feeding-DRN(Vgat) neurons increase, whereas DRN(VGLUT3) neurons suppress, food intake. Furthermore, modulation of these neurons in obese (ob/ob) mice suppresses food intake and body weight and normalizes locomotor activity. Finally, using molecular profiling, we identify druggable targets in these neurons and show that local infusion of agonists for specific receptors on these neurons has potent effects on feeding. These data establish the DRN as an important node controlling energy balance. PAPERCLIP.

We conducted this mass screening study to determine the prevalence of celiac disease (CD) and characterize the celiac iceberg among Saudi pediatric population in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia.

To determine the relationship between sleep duration and abdominal obesity in elderly in china.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is becoming the leading cause of disease resulting in liver transplantation (LT). As a result of this trend, more liver transplant candidates are presenting with prior history of bariatric surgery (BS). Over the last decade, 960 patients underwent LT at our institution; 11 (1.1%) had prior BS. Most common type of BS was Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (n=9) with 1 sleeve gastrectomy and 1 jejunoileal bypass. Nine patients underwent LT alone and 2 underwent simultaneous liver-kidney transplantation. Most common indication for LT was non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (n=10) with 5 having additional diagnosis of alcoholic liver disease. Thirty-day reoperation rate was 36.4% (n=4); indications were bile duct repair (n=3) and wound repair (n=1). In first 6 months after LT, biliary complications were seen in 54.5% (n=6) of the patients. Both patient and graft survival rates at 1 and 2 years were 81.8% (n=9) and 72.7% (n=8), respectively. Eight patients (72.7%) had indications for liver biopsy post-LT; significant macro-vesicular steatosis was found in 2 (18.2%). In patients with history of alcohol consumption, 2 (40.0%) relapsed post-LT. Two patients (18.2%) had history of diet-controlled diabetes pre-LT; 1 of these patients became insulin dependent post-LT. Mean body mass index at LT was 31.0±5.7. Mean body mass index at 1, 6, and 12 months post LT was 28.3±5.8, 28.0±3.2 and 31.0±6.6, respectively. Mean preoperative albumin was 2.6±0.6 mg/dl. Patients showed improvement in albumin post-LT, with mean albumin of 2.7±0.6 and 3.2±0.5 mg/dl, at 1 and 3 months, respectively. Liver profile was stable post-LT, with mean AST of 32.9±18.4 and 26.6±19.8 IU/L and ALT of 28.0±17.5 and 30.2±17.0 IU/L at 6 and 12 months, respectively. In conclusion, outcomes of LT patients with prior BS are comparable to other transplant recipients with regards to patient and graft survival, and post-LT complication rates. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Obesity now rivals smoking as one of the leading preventable causes of cancer. Obesity-associated neutrophilia is now shown to enhance breast cancer metastasis and to be reversible through dietary modification and weight loss.

Overweight and obesity in adolescents is associated with many health risks and considerable direct and indirect healthcare costs. The purpose of this study is to examine trends in the prevalence of overweight and obesity in 11-, 13- and 15-year-old adolescents in the Czech Republic from 1998 to 2014.

There is limited research in young infants, particularly <3 months of age, on maternal feeding practices in spite of increasing evidence that early weight gain velocity is a determinant of later obesity risk.

The predisposition for obesity is suggested to originate in the prenatal period. Prenatal markers are needed to identify foetuses at risk for neonatal adiposity, as early marker of childhood obesity.

Structural and functional left ventricular alterations can occur in heart failure (HF), referred to as left ventricular reverse remodelling (LVRR). This study aimed to define novel predictors of LVRR besides well-known effects of medical and device therapy.

Body mass index is the most often used indicator of obesity but does not distinguish between lean and fat mass. Adiposity at the same body mass index differs across ethnic groups.

Galectin-3 and LTB4 are pro-inflammatory molecules recently shown to directly cause insulin resistance in mouse and human cells. They are highly expressed in the obese state, and can be targeted both genetically and pharmacologically to improve insulin sensitivity in vivo. This expands on previous research showing that targeting inflammatory cytokines can be insulin sensitizing in animal models. However, translating these potential therapies into the human setting remains challenging. Here we review this latest research, and discuss how balancing their pleiotropic functions, the action of the microbiome, and the ability to identify relevant patient populations are vital considerations for successful anti-inflammatory insulin sensitizing therapy.

This study's purpose was to examine changes in healthy and unhealthy items purchased following the implementation of traffic light and cartoon labelling in a small retail food venue (Café Bay) in a children's hospital in eastern North Carolina. Between October 2015 and March 2016, daily food and beverage sales from Café Bay were obtained during baseline, traffic light labelling, a washout period, cartoon labelling (on healthy foods only) and a final washout period. Pearson chi-squared tests and multiple linear regressions were used to examine effects of labelling strategies, controlling for the holidays. In unadjusted analyses, traffic light labelling was associated with significant decreases in purchases of unhealthy items purchased, while cartoon labelling was associated with increases in unhealthy items purchased. In adjusted linear regression analysis, traffic light labelling was associated with fewer unhealthy purchases and thus may have potential to decrease the amount of unhealthy items purchased in a children's hospital food retail venue.

Obesity rises rapidly and is a major health concern for modern people. Importantly, it is a major risk factor in the development of numerous chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Recently, interleukin (IL)-15 has attracted considerable attention as a potential regulator for the prevention and/or treatment of obesity and T2DM. The beneficial effects include increased loss of fat mass and body weight, improved lipid and glucose metabolism, reduced white adipose tissue inflammation, enhanced mitochondrial function, alterations in the composition of muscle fibres and gut bacterial and attenuated endoplasmic reticulum stress. Although these beneficial effects are somewhat controversial, IL-15, exogenously delivered or endogenously produced, may be a promising target in the prevention and treatment of obesity and T2DM.

Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) is a disease caused by thiamine deficiency related to alcoholism, hyperemesis, or thiamine malabsorption. The clinical manifestations of WE are mental change, ataxia, and ophthalmoplegia. The typical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of WE are symmetrical involvement of medial thalamus, periventricular region of the third ventricle, periaqueductal area, and mammillary body. The atypical MRI findings are more common in nonalcoholic WE. Since the increasing population of obesity and the preference of weight loss surgery, the risk of developing thiamine deficiencies associated with weight loss surgery has become a considerable etiology of WE. We herein reported a case reminds clinicians that WE can be a possible diagnosis in patient who developed acute altered mental status with atypical MRI lesion involving bilateral centrum semiovale and corona radiata after receiving bariatric surgery.

Since its domestication over 100 years ago, the laboratory rat has been the preferred experimental animal in many areas of biomedical research (Lindsey and Baker The laboratory rat. Academic, New York, pp 1-52, 2006). Its physiology, size, genetics, reproductive cycle, cognitive and behavioural characteristics have made it a particularly useful animal model for studying many human disorders and diseases. Indeed, through selective breeding programmes numerous strains have been derived that are now the mainstay of research on hypertension, obesity and neurobiology (Okamoto and Aoki Jpn Circ J 27:282-293, 1963; Zucker and Zucker J Hered 52(6):275-278, 1961). Despite this wealth of genetic and phenotypic diversity, the ability to manipulate and interrogate the genetic basis of existing phenotypes in rat strains and the methodology to generate new rat models has lagged significantly behind the advances made with its close cousin, the laboratory mouse. However, recent technical developments in stem cell biology and genetic engineering have again brought the rat to the forefront of biomedical studies and enabled researchers to exploit the increasingly accessible wealth of genome sequence information. In this review, we will describe how a breakthrough in understanding the molecular basis of self-renewal of the pluripotent founder cells of the mammalian embryo, embryonic stem (ES) cells, enabled the derivation of rat ES cells and their application in transgenesis. We will also describe the remarkable progress that has been made in the development of gene editing enzymes that enable the generation of transgenic rats directly through targeted genetic modifications in the genomes of zygotes. The simplicity, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the CRISPR/Cas gene editing system, in particular, mean that the ability to engineer the rat genome is no longer a limiting factor. The selection of suitable targets and gene modifications will now become a priority: a challenge where ES culture and gene editing technologies can play complementary roles in generating accurate bespoke rat models for studying biological processes and modelling human disease.

This study was an investigation of effects of pre-obesity on clinical characteristics and quality of life in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS).

Introduction: Data from last years suggested that early exposure to endocrine disruptors (EDs) can predispose newborns to endocrine dysfunction of adipocytes, obesity, and associated disorders. The implication of EDs at low doses on adipocyte development has been poorly investigated. For instance, vinclozolin (V) is a dicarboximide fungicide widely used in agriculture since the 90's, alone or in mixture with genistein (G), an isoflavonoid from Leguminosae. This study aims to identify the effect of vinclozolin alone or with genistein, on adipose tissue properties using cell culture. Methods: In steroid-free conditions, 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes were induced to differentiate in the presence of EDs, singularly or in mixtures, for 2 days. DNA and triglyceride (TG) levels were measured on days 0, 2 and 8 of differentiation. Leptin secretion was measured only on the eighth day. Results: We show that low doses of G (25 µM) and V (0.1 µM) inhibit pre-adipocytes differentiation. This inhibition has been represented by a decreasing in DNA content (µg/well) and decreasing in TG accumulation (mg/mL) in 3T3-L1 cells. Nevertheless, V increased the anti-adipogenic properties of G. Conclusion: This study confirms that EDs singularly or in mixtures, introduced during early stages of life, could affect the differentiation and the endocrine activity of adipocytes, and can act as potential factors for obesity.

In adults, type 2 diabetes and obesity have been associated with structural brain changes, even in the absence of dementia. Some evidence suggested similar changes in adolescents with type 2 diabetes but comparisons with a non-obese control group have been lacking. The aim of the current study was to examine differences in microstructure of gray and white matter between adolescents with type 2 diabetes, obese adolescents and healthy weight adolescents.

According to the Developmental Origin of Health and Disease (DOHaD) concept, maternal obesity and accelerated growth in neonates predispose offspring to white adipose tissue (WAT) accumulation. In rodents, adipogenesis mainly develops during lactation. The mechanisms underlying the phenomenon known as developmental programming remain elusive. We previously reported that adult rat offspring from high-fat diet-fed dams (called HF) exhibited hypertrophic adipocyte, hyperleptinemia and increased leptin mRNA levels in a depot-specific manner. We hypothesized that leptin upregulation occurs via epigenetic malprogramming, which takes place early during development of WAT.

The hypothalamus of hypercaloric diet-induced obese animals is featured by a significant increase of microglial reactivity and its associated cytokine production. However, the role of dietary components, in particular fat and carbohydrate, with respect to the hypothalamic inflammatory response and the consequent impact on hypothalamic control of energy homeostasis is yet not clear.

Brown and white adipose tissue exerts pleiotropic effects on systemic energy metabolism in part by releasing endocrine factors. Neuregulin 4 (Nrg4) was recently identified as a brown fat-enriched secreted factor that ameliorates diet-induced metabolic disorders, including insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis. However, the physiological mechanisms through which Nrg4 regulates energy balance and glucose and lipid metabolism remain incompletely understood. The aims of the current study were: i) to investigate the regulation of adipose Nrg4 expression during obesity and the physiological signals involved, ii) to elucidate the mechanisms underlying Nrg4 regulation of energy balance and glucose and lipid metabolism, and iii) to explore whether Nrg4 regulates adipose tissue secretome gene expression and adipokine secretion.

We have previously shown that the consumption of a low-carbohydrate ketogenic diet (KD) by mice leads to a distinct physiologic state associated with weight loss, increased metabolic rate, and improved insulin sensitivity [1]. Furthermore, we identified fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) as a necessary mediator of the changes, as mice lacking FGF21 fed KD gain rather than lose weight [2]. FGF21 activates the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) [3], which is a key regulator of metabolic rate. Thus, we considered that the SNS may play a role in mediating the metabolic adaption to ketosis.

Angiopoietin-like 4 (ANGPTL4) is a fasting-induced inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and a regulator of plasma triglyceride metabolism. Here, we examined the kinetics of Angptl4 induction and tested the hypothesis that ANGPTL4 functions physiologically to reduce triglyceride delivery to adipose tissue during nutrient deprivation.

The de novo biosynthesis of fatty acids (DNL) through fatty acid synthase (FASN) in adipocytes is exquisitely regulated by nutrients, hormones, fasting, and obesity in mice and humans. However, the functions of DNL in adipocyte biology and in the regulation of systemic glucose homeostasis are not fully understood.

To investigate changes in adiposity and cardio-metabolic risk profile following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in patients of Middle Eastern ethnicity with severe obesity.

To determine the predictive role of body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) for diabetes and prediabetes risk in future in total sample as well as in men and women separately.

Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most feared ocular manifestation of diabetes. DR is characterized by progressive retinal damage that may eventually result in blindness. Clinically, this blindness is caused by progressive damage to the retinal microvasculature, which leads to ischemia, retinal swelling, and neovascularization. Retinopathy is associated with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, with DR being the leading cause of new onset blindness in United States adults. Despite this strong association with diabetes, it must be noted that the development of retinopathy lesions is multifactorial and may occur in individuals without an established history of diabetes. Metabolic syndrome is a multifactorial condition of central obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, dyslipidemia, hypertension, fasting hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance. Although several studies examined the individual components observed in the metabolic syndrome in relation to the development of DR, there is conflicting data as to the association of the metabolic syndrome with the development of retinopathy lesions in non-diabetic subjects. This review will summarize the current literature on the evidence of the metabolic syndrome on retinopathy in subjects with and without an established history of diabetes. This review will also discuss some of the mechanisms through which metabolic syndrome can contribute to the development of retinopathy.

Many studies have identified early-life risk factors for subsequent childhood overweight/obesity, but few have evaluated how they combine to influence risk of childhood overweight/obesity. We examined associations, individually and in combination, of potentially modifiable risk factors in the first 1000 days after conception with childhood adiposity and risk of overweight/obesity in an Asian cohort.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) encompasses a broad spectrum of conditions, ranging from non-progressive bland steatosis to hepatocarcinoma. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (Timp3) has a role in the pathogenesis of fatty liver disease associated with obesity and is silenced during metabolic disorders and liver cancer. We generated an hepatocyte-specific TIMP3 'gain-of-function' mouse model under the control of the Albumin promoter (AlbT3) and investigated its effects during high-fat diet (HFD). After 16 weeks of HFD, TIMP3 overexpression significantly improved glucose metabolism, hepatic fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol homeostasis. In AlbT3 mice CYP7A1, MDR3 and MRP2 gene expressions were observed, consistent with higher bile acid synthesis and export. Next, to evaluate the role of A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 17 (ADAM17), a crucial target of TIMP3, in these processes, we created mice deficient in Adam17 specifically in hepatocyte (A17LKO) or in myeloid lineage (A17MKO), founding that only A17LKO showed improvement in liver steatosis induced by HFD. Moreover, both, AlbT3 and A17LKO significantly reduced diethylnitrosamine-initiated, HFD-promoted hepatic tumorigenesis assessed by tumor multiplicity and total tumor area. Taken together, these data indicate that hepatic TIMP3 can slow progression of NAFLD, and tumorigenesis, at least in part, through the regulation of ADAM17 activity.

The developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis proposes that an adverse early life environment, including in utero exposure to a maternal obesogenic environment, can lead to an increased long-term risk of obesity and related metabolic complications in offspring. We assessed whether maternal supplementation with conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) could prevent some of these adverse effects in offspring exposed to a maternal high fat diet. Sprague-Dawley dams consumed either a: control (CD), control with CLA (CLA), high fat (HF) or high fat with CLA (HFCLA) diet 10 days prior to mating and throughout pregnancy/lactation. Male offspring were weaned onto a standard chow diet. Body composition was quantified by DXA and oral glucose tolerance tests conducted on adult offspring. Gene/protein expression and histological analysis were conducted in adipose tissue. Offspring from HF dams had increased body weight, body fat deposition, impaired insulin sensitivity and adipocyte hypertrophy; all of which were rescued in HFCLA offspring. Molecular and histological analyses of the adipose tissue suggest that disturbances in adipogenesis may mediate the metabolic dysfunction observed in HF offspring. Therefore, CLA supplementation to a maternal obesogenic diet may be a promising strategy to prevent adverse programming outcomes.

Despite the dramatic increase in the prevalence of diabetes, techniques for in situ studies of the underlying pancreatic biochemistry are lacking. Such methods would facilitate obtaining mechanistic understanding of diabetes pathophysiology and aid in prognostic and/or diagnostic assessments. In this report we demonstrate how a multivariate imaging approach (orthogonal projections to latent structures - discriminant analysis) can be applied to generate full vibrational microspectroscopic profiles of pancreatic tissues. These profiles enable extraction of known and previously unrecorded biochemical alterations in models of diabetes, and allow for classification of the investigated tissue with regards to tissue type, strain and stage of disease progression. Most significantly, the approach provided evidence for dramatic alterations of the pancreatic biochemistry at the initial onset of immune-infiltration in the Non Obese Diabetic model for type 1 diabetes. Further, it enabled detection of a previously undocumented accumulation of collagen fibrils in the leptin deficient ob/ob mouse islets. By generating high quality spectral profiles through the tissue capsule of hydrated human pancreata and by in vivo Raman imaging of pancreatic islets transplanted to the anterior chamber of the eye, we provide critical feasibility studies for the translation of this technique to diagnostic assessments of pancreatic biochemistry in vivo.

Transmission of metabolic diseases from mother to child is multifactorial and includes genetic, epigenetic, and environmental influences. Evidence in rodents, humans and non-human primates support the scientific premise that exposure to maternal obesity or high-fat diet during pregnancy creates a long-lasting metabolic signature on the infant innate immune system and the juvenile microbiota which predisposes the offspring to obesity and metabolic diseases. In neonates, gastrointestinal microbes introduced through the mother are noted for their ability to serve as direct inducers/regulators of the infant immune system. Neonates have a limited capacity to initiate an immune response. Thus, disruption of microbial colonization during the early neonatal period results in disrupted postnatal immune responses that highlight the neonatal period as a critical developmental window. Although the mechanisms are poorly understood, increasing evidence suggests that maternal obesity or poor diet influences the development and modulation of the infant liver and other end-organs through direct communication via the portal system, metabolite production, alterations in gut barrier integrity, and the hematopoietic immune cell axis. This review will focus on how maternal obesity and dietary intake influence the composition of the infant gut microbiota and how an imbalance or maladaptation in the microbiota, including changes in early pioneering microbes, might contribute to the programming of offspring metabolism with special emphasis on mechanisms that promote chronic inflammation in the liver. Comprehension of these pathways and mechanisms will elucidate our understanding of developmental programming, and may expand the avenue of opportunities for novel therapeutics.

Overweight is a major health issue, and parent-targeted interventions to promote healthy development in children are needed.

The central nervous system is an essential actor in the control of the energy balance. Indeed, many signals of nervous (vagal afferent for example) or circulating (hormone, nutrients) origin converge towards the brain to inform it permanently of the energetic status of the organism. In turn, the brain sends information to the periphery (sympathetic vagal balance, thyroid or corticotropic axis) which allows a fine regulation of the energy fluxes by acting on the hepatic glucose production, the secretion of the pancreatic hormones (glucagon, insulin) or food behavior. Among the nutrients, increasing amount of data assigns a signal molecule role to lipids such as fatty acids. These fatty acids may originate from the bloodstream but may also be the product of the hydrolysis of lipoproteins such as chylomicrons or VLDLs. Indeed, the identification of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in the brain has led to the hypothesis that the LPL-dependent degradation of TG-enriched particles, and the addition of fatty acids, as informative molecules, to sensitive cells (neurons and/or astrocytes), plays a key role in maintaining the energy balance at equilibrium. Other lipases could also participate in these regulatory mechanisms. This review will summarize the state of the art and open up perspectives.

To describe caregiver-reported quality of life (QOL) in youth with Down syndrome (DS) and to examine the role of obesity on QOL.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) consists of an excessive depositing of fat in the liver, which can end up by causing inflammation, fibrosis and also cirrhosis with the corresponding complications including liver cancer. NAFLD has become the most common liver disease worldwide. The incidence has increased in parallel with the obesity, diabetes and metabolic syndrome epidemic, thus resulting in becoming one of the main indications for liver transplant. The diagnosis has principally been through histology but with the development of non-invasive methods, these have helped in simplifying the management of these patients in clinical practice. The only therapeutic strategies currently available are focused on weight loss (lifestyle changes or bariatric surgery). There is still no approved pharmacological option for the treatment of NAFLD, however there are a number of molecular studies in advanced stages of development.

To assess the effects of lifestyle risk factors on the risk of hospitalization for sciatica and to determine whether overweight or obesity modifies the effect of leisure-time physical activity on hospitalization for sciatica.

Obesity (BMI>30Kg/m(2)) is a pandemic with severe medical and financial implications. There is growing evidence that relates certain metabolic processes within the adipose tissue, preferentially abdominal fat, with a low-intensity chronic inflammatory state mediated by adipokines and other substances that favor disk disease and chronic low back pain. Obesity greatly conditions both the preoperative evaluation and the spinal surgical technique itself. Some meta-analyses have confirmed an increase of complications following lumbar spine surgery (mainly infections and venous thrombosis) in obese subjects. However, functional outcomes after lumbar spine surgery are favorable although inferior to the non-obese population, acknowledging that obese patients present with worse baseline function levels and the prognosis of conservatively treated obese cohorts is much worse. The impact of preoperative weight loss in spine surgery has not been prospectively studied in these patients.

PIMSR is among the first neutral antagonists for the CB1R and was demonstrated pharmacologically to bind to the CB1R, yet not alter calcium flux. It was further shown computationally to be able to stabilize both the active and inactive states of CB1R revealing the molecular interactions that mechanistically afford the property of neutral antagonism. PIMSR shows dramatic positive effects in reducing weight, food intake, and adiposity as well as in improving glycemic control and lipid homeostasis in high-fat diet-induced obese mice, but also shows increased ALT and liver weight as markers of liver injury with chronic administration. Further, in a separate study, 3-day administration of PIMSR in C57BL/6J mice, hepatic steatosis from an acute administration of high of ethanol was significantly reduced. Also, it partially prevented alcohol-induced increases in ALT, AST, and LDH. The differences in ALT levels in obese and nonobese mice under different test paradigms are unlikely to be due to neutral antagonism itself since other neutral antagonists (AM6545) do not exhibit liver injury. The brain levels of low micromolar would support significant brain CB1 receptor occupancy (re: Ki=17nM), thus potentially including both CNS and peripheral influences on the observed weight loss. Overall, these studies suggest that marked improvements in aspects of metabolic disease and alcoholic steatosis can be realized with CB1R neutral antagonists and hence warrants the exploration of further members of this class of cannabinoid ligands.

Bariatric surgery is considered a more effective means of achieving weight loss than non-surgical options in morbid obesity. Rates of failure or relapse range from 20 to 30%. The study aims to analyse the influence of psychological variables (self-esteem, social support, coping strategies and personality) in the maintenance of weight loss after bariatric surgery.

Microvascular disease is associated with a high risk of macrovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes, but the impact of macrovascular disease on the risk of microvascular events remains unknown. We sought to evaluate the respective effects of prior microvascular and macrovascular disease on the risk of major outcomes, including microvascular events, in these patients.

LADA is probably the most prevalent form of autoimmune diabetes. Nevertheless, there are few data about cardiovascular disease in this group of patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of carotid atherosclerotic plaques in patients with LADA as compared with patients with classic type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes.

Plasma free fatty acids levels are increased in subjects with obesity and type 2 diabetes, playing detrimental roles in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular diseases. Increasing evidence showing that dysfunction of the vascular endothelium, the inner lining of the blood vessels, is the key player in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. In this review, we aimed to summarize the roles and the underlying mechanisms using the evidence collected from clinical and experimental studies about free fatty acid-mediated endothelial dysfunction. Because of the multifaceted roles of plasma free fatty acids in mediating endothelial dysfunction, elevated free fatty acid level is now considered as an important link in the onset of endothelial dysfunction due to metabolic syndromes such as diabetes and obesity. Free fatty acid-mediated endothelial dysfunction involves several mechanisms including impaired insulin signaling and nitric oxide production, oxidative stress, inflammation and the activation of the renin-angiotensin system and apoptosis in the endothelial cells. Therefore, targeting the signaling pathways involved in free fatty acid-induced endothelial dysfunction could serve as a preventive approach to protect against the occurrence of endothelial dysfunction and the subsequent complications such as atherosclerosis.

Obesity and its comorbidities constitute a serious health burden worldwide. Leptin plays an important role in diet control; however, it has a stimulatory potential on cancer cell proliferation. The OB3 peptide, a synthetic peptide, was shown to be more active than leptin in regulating metabolism but with no mitogenic effects in cancer cells.

Adjuvant chemotherapy improves outcome of patients with early breast cancer. However, chemotherapy may be associated with long term toxicities. In this retrospective cohort study, the objectives were to determine body weight, body mass index (BMI), blood pressure and fasting lipids levels of young premenopausal Chinese breast cancer patients after adjuvant chemotherapy. Potential factors associated with these parameters were identified.

Although the detrimental effects of several dietary components on the promotion of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are well known, no studies have assessed the role of dietary vitamin B6. Moreover, studies on the associations between dietary components or body composition indices and liver steatosis assessed by transient elastography are rare. Our aim was to identify the nutritional factors and anthropometric parameters associated with liver steatosis.

Botulinum toxin type A (BTX), a long-acting inhibitor of muscular contraction in both striated and smooth muscles, is responsible for gastric motility. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of an endoscopic intragastric BTX injection on weight loss, body fat accumulation, and gastric emptying time.

Obesity has grown into an epidemic across the globe. Mirroring this growth in the number of obese individuals in the general population, the prevalence of obesity and extremely morbid obesity (body mass index >50 kg/m2) is similarly rising in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Obesity, and more so, extremely morbid obesity, creates additional challenges for clinicians aiming at providing the best treatment options to patients with ESRD. Although literature is available regarding renal replacement therapy (RRT) for obese patients, literature about challenges facing clinicians managing ESRD in the extremely obese patients is lacking. Furthermore, the optimal strategies and goals for managing these patients with ESRD are not well defined. To our knowledge, no study has been done evaluating RRT options available to extremely morbid obese patients and the challenges associated with these options. Here, we report a case series and discuss the potential challenges faced by extremely obese patients with ESRD requiring RRT.

Individuals with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are at a risk of obesity-related chronic diseases; yet, no evidence-based strategies exist to support weight management in this population. The purpose of this study was to use participatory action research to modify the Diabetes Prevention Program Group Lifestyle Balance (DPP-GLB) programme for overweight/obese people with TBI. The DPP-GLB programme provides education and self-management skills for individuals to reach their lifestyle goals through healthy eating and physical activity.

To discriminate the effect of maternal obesity and gestational diabetes on birth weight and adipose tissue of the newborn.

Obesity during pregnancy increases the risk of adverse clinical outcomes and is associated with low-grade chronic inflammation. We describe maternal metabolic risk and inflammation by maternal weight status, and evaluate the association of metabolic and inflammatory markers with birthweight in a group of pregnant Mexican women.

Accurate estimation of resting energy expenditure (REE) in childrenand adolescents is important to establish estimated energy requirements. The aim of the present study was to measure REE in obese children and adolescents by indirect calorimetry method, compare these values with REE values estimated by equations, and develop the most appropriate equation for this group.

Background: India is a populous country of about 1.3 billion. Non communicable diseases (NCDs) contribute to around 5.87 million (60%) of all deaths in India. Hence, the objectives of this paper are to find baseline information on different NCD risk factors coverage and to determine their trends in India. Methods: For this systematic review, PubMed, Google and different surveillance systems were searched. Of the search results, 41 papers/survey reports were eventually assessed for eligibility. National and state representative data on NCD risk factors (for the major NCDs like cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory disease, cancer and diabetes) having World Health Organization(WHO) indicator definitions, covering rural and urban population, were included in the study. Thereafter, state-wise population proportion was added and divided by the total Indian population to determine the percentage of population coverage for each risk factor by the surveys. Also, the old and current data of the periodic surveys were compared to assess prevalence trends. Results: Various national/state level surveys in India include single or multiple risk factors. Nationwide coverage is available for tobacco use, alcohol drinking, raised blood pressure and overweight and obesity. Periodic National Family Health Surveys provide information on selected risk factors during 2005-16 among adults aged 15-49 years. An overall significant increase was noted in overweight and obesity while decline was noted in tobacco and alcohol use during the same period. From GATS 1 (2009-10) to 2 (2016-17) also, the prevalence of tobacco consumption decreased in India. Conclusion: India has a much delayed response on NCD risk factors surveillance and information of the same are sporadic and incomplete. In order to increase information comprehensiveness, standard WHO NCD risk factors questions must be incorporated in the ongoing surveys. India should also plan for cost and time effective NCD surveillance system.

Objective: In Korea, 95% of esophageal cancer (EC) was the squamous cell-type. We sought to determine the combined risk of alcohol consumption on developing esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in pre-diagnostic underweight subjects using Korean national data. Methods: We analyzed the clinical data from a total of 264,084 individuals aged 40 years or older, who received healthcare checkups arranged by the national insurance program, between 2003 and 2008 in Korea. Cox proportional hazards regression was used after adjusting confounding factors. Result: Newly diagnosed 278 EC was identified using the claims data during a median follow-up duration of 7.9 years. It was determined that underweight and obesity-compared with normal weight-were significantly associated with 73% increased risk and 30% decreased risk of EC, respectively. Weight gain reduced the risk of EC. Alcohol consumption increased risk for EC in a dose-dependent manner. Heavy alcohol consumption in individuals with underweight increased the risk of developing EC dramatically. Conclusion: Underweight was a risk factor for ESCC and alcohol consumption raised the risk synergistically with low BMI. Achieving normal range of BMI could reduce the risk of ESCC.

To support a national initiative to remove sugary drinks from schools and limit drinks to water or unflavoured milk ('water-only').

The Australian Capital Territory 'It's Your Move!' (ACT-IYM) was a three-year (2012-2014) systems intervention to prevent obesity among adolescents.

The association between obesity and spontaneous preterm births (sPTBs) has been shown to be influenced by obesity-attendant comorbidities. Our objective was to better understand the complex relationship of obesity and its attendant comorbidities with sPTBs.

Nuts have high energy and fat contents, but nut intake does not promote weight gain or obesity, which may be partially explained by their proposed high satiety value. The primary aim of this study was to assess the effects of consuming almonds versus a baked food on postprandial appetite and neural responses to visual food stimuli. Twenty-two adults (19 women and 3 men) with a BMI between 25 and 40 kg/m² completed the current study during a 12-week behavioral weight loss intervention. Participants consumed either 28 g of whole, lightly salted roasted almonds or a serving of a baked food with equivalent energy and macronutrient contents in random order on two testing days prior to and at the end of the intervention. Pre- and postprandial appetite ratings and functional magnetic resonance imaging scans were completed on all four testing days. Postprandial hunger, desire to eat, fullness, and neural responses to visual food stimuli were not different following consumption of almonds and the baked food, nor were they influenced by weight loss. These results support energy and macronutrient contents as principal determinants of postprandial appetite and do not support a unique satiety effect of almonds independent of these variables.

Although physical activity has been widely recognized as an important influential factor in determining the risk of obesity, the results in the existing literature empirically examining such issue are mixed. Especially for China, relevant studies are rarely found. One aim of this study is to test the direction of effects between obesity and physical activity. It uses longitudinal data to investigate the relationship and causality between physical activity and obesity for both children and adults in China. The longitudinal data and dynamic panel model used here can yield more solid results than the other studies employing cross-sectional data, particularly considering strict endogeneity and self-selection. It is discovered that obesity does not affect children's physical activity but that obese children are more sedentary. For adults in China, physical activity can significantly reduce the weight, but not in the opposite direction.

Obesity is known for low-grade inflammatory state with enhanced production of inflammatory mediators in children and adolescents. Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) can be generated as a pro-inflammatory marker. This study was conducted to evaluate the role of suPAR, and its association with leptin, adiponectin, interleukin-6 (IL-6), high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and fibrinogen in adolescent obesity.

Diabetes mellitus is a growing in exponential proportions. If the current growth trend continues, it may result in every third adult in the United States having diabetes mellitus by 2050, and every 10(th) adult worldwide. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) confers a 2- to 3-fold increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) events compared with non-diabetic patients, and CV mortality is responsible for around 80% mortality in this population. Patients with T2DM can have other features of insulin resistance-metabolic syndrome like hypertension, lipid abnormalities, and obesity which are all associated with increased CV disease and stroke risk even in the absence of T2DM. The management of a T2DM calls for employing a holistic risk factor control approach. Metformin is the first line therapy for T2DM and has been shown to have cardiovascular beneficial effects. Intense debate regarding the risk of myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone led to regulatory agencies necessitating cardiovascular outcome trials with upcoming anti-diabetic medications. Glucagon like peptide-1 agonists and sodium glucose co-transporter-2 inhibitors have shown promising CV safety and additional CV benefit in recent clinical trials. These drugs have favorable effects on traditional CV risk factors. The findings from these studies further support that fact that CV risk factor control plays an important role in reducing morbidity and mortality in T2DM patients. This review article will discuss briefly the cardiovascular safety and benefits of the oral medications which are currently being used for T2DM and will then discuss in detail about the newer medications being investigated for the treatment of T2DM.

Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (GB) and sleeve gastrectomy (SG) are the most commonly performed metabolic surgeries and are highly effective for the treatment of obesity and related comorbidities. In this narrative review, recent studies of at least two years of follow-up directly comparing outcomes between GB and SG are reviewed to assess the efficacy of each procedure in weight loss and diabetes remission, as well as resulting quality of life (QoL) assessment and micronutrient deficiencies.

Sedentary behavior is a main risk factor for cardiovascular disease and mortality.

The management of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) in patients with obesity presents numerous challenges. Obesity has a negative effect on almost all of the major CVD risk factors, and adversely influences cardiovascular structure and function. Patients who are overweight or obese have a higher incidence of almost all CVDs compared with patients who are of normal weight. However, those who are overweight or obese seem to have a better short-term and medium-term prognosis after major CVD events and interventional procedures or cardiac surgeries than leaner patients, a phenomenon termed the 'obesity paradox'. In considering the mechanisms underlying this paradox, we review evidence of the deleterious consequences of obesity in patients with coronary heart disease, and the limited data on the benefits of weight loss in patients with CVD. Additional studies are needed on the efficacy of purposeful weight loss on cardiovascular outcomes to determine the ideal body composition for patients with CVD.

There has been no nationwide population-based study of the prevalence of self-perceived snoring/apnea in Korean adolescents. The purpose of this study was to estimate prevalence of self-perceived snoring/apnea in Korean high-school students and to evaluate their association with daytime sleepiness.

Increased predisposition of schizophrenia patients (SP) to development of obesity and insulin resistance suggested common signaling pathway between metabolic syndrome (MetS) and schizophrenia. Deficiency of kynurenine-3-monooxygenase (KMO), enzyme catalyzing formation of 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) from kynurenine (Kyn), a tryptophan (Trp) metabolite, might contribute to development of MetS as suggested by non-expression of KMO genes in human fat tissue and elevated serum concentrations of Kyn and its metabolites, kynurenic (KYNA) and anthranilic (ANA) acids, in diabetic patients and Zucker fatty rats (ZFR). Markers of KMO deficiency: decreased 3-HK and elevated Kyn, KYNA and ANA, were observed in brains and spinal fluids of SP, and in brains and serum of experimental animals with genetically- or pharmacologically-induced KMO deficiency. However, elevated concentrations of ANA and decreased 3-HK were reported in serum of SP without concurrent increase of Kyn and KYNA. Present study aimed to re-assess serum Kyn metabolites (HPLC-MS) in a sub-group of SP with elevated KYNA. We found increased Kyn concentrations (by 30%) and Kyn:Trp ratio (by 20%) in serum of SP with elevated KYNA concentrations (by 40%). Obtained results and our previous data suggest that peripheral KMO deficiency might be manifested by, at least, two different patterns: elevated ANA with decreased 3-HK; and elevated KYNA and KYN. The latter pattern was previously described in type 2 diabetes patients and might underline increased predisposition of SP to development of MetS. Assessment of peripheral KMO deficiency might identify SP predisposed to MetS. Attenuation of the consequences of peripheral KMO deficiency might be a new target for prevention/treatment of obesity and diabetes in SP.

The vast majority of cancer-related deaths are due to metastatic disease, whereby primary tumor cells disseminate and colonize distal sites within the body. Triple negative breast cancer typically displays aberrant Wnt signaling, lacks effective targeted therapies, and compared with other breast cancer subtypes, is more likely to recur and metastasize. We developed a Wnt-driven lung metastasis model of triple negative breast cancer (metM-Wnt(lung)) through serial passaging of our previously described, nonmetastatic, claudin-low M-Wnt cell line. metM-Wnt(lung) cells displayed characteristics of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (e.g., increased invasiveness) with some re-epithealization (e.g., increased adhesion, tight colony formation, increased E-cadherin expression, and decreased Vimentin and Fibronectin expression). When orthotopically transplanted into syngeneic mice, metM-Wnt(lung) cells readily formed tumors and metastasized in vivo, and tumor growth and metastasis were enhanced in obese mice compared with non-obese mice. Gene expression analysis revealed several genes and pathways altered in metM-Wnt(lung) cells compared with M-Wnt cells, including multiple genes associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, energy metabolism and inflammation. Moreover, obesity caused significant transcriptomic changes, especially in metabolic pathways. Metabolic flux analyses showed greater metabolic plasticity, with heightened mitochondrial and glycolytic energetics in metM-Wnt(lung) cells relative to M-Wnt cells. Similar metabolic profiles were found in a second triple negative breast cancer progression series, M6 and M6C cells. These findings suggest that metabolic reprogramming is a feature of metastatic potential in triple negative breast cancer. Thus, targeting metastases-associated metabolic perturbations may represent a novel strategy for reducing the burden of metastatic triple negative breast cancer, particularly in obese women.

The association between uric acid (UA) on one side and systemic hypertension (Htn), dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, overweight, fatty liver, renal disease and cardiovascular disease (CVD) on the other side is well recognized. However, the causal relationship between UA and these different clinical problems is still debatable. The recent years have witnessed hundreds of experimental and clinical trials that favored the opinion that UA is a probable player in the pathogenesis of these disease entities. These studies disclosed the strong association between hyperuricemia and metabolic syndrome (MS), obesity, Htn, type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hypertriglyceridemia, acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease (CKD), coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure and increased mortality among cardiac and CKD patients. The association between UA and nephrolithiasis or preeclampsia is a non-debatable association. Recent experimental trials have disclosed different changes in enzyme activities induced by UA. Nitric oxide (NO) synthase, adenosine monophosphate kinase (AMPK), adenosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (AMPD), and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidase are affected by UA. These changes in enzymatic activities can lead to the observed biochemical and pathological changes associated with UA. The recent experimental, clinical, interventional, and epidemiologic trials favor the concept of a causative role of UA in the pathogenesis of MS, renal, and CVDs.

C57BL/6N is the most widely used inbred mouse strain applied in a wide variety of research areas including cancer, cardiovascular biology, developmental biology, diabetes and obesity, genetics, immunology, neurobiology, and sensorineural research. To compare the fertilization rates of C57BL/6NKorl mice with two commercial C57BL/6N stocks, differences in reproductive organ structures, sperm and egg numbers, fertilization rates, and embryo development rates among C57BL/6NKorl (Korea FDA source), C57BL/6NA (USA source), and C57BL/6NB (Japan source) mice were determined. Among the stocks, no significant differences were detected in organ weight and histological structure of male and female reproductive organs, although body weight was higher in C57BL/6NKorl mice than that in the other groups. The concentration and morphology of sperm and eggs in C57BL/6NKorl mice were similar to those of C57BL/6NA and C57BL/6NB mice. Furthermore, the three stocks had similar in vitro fertilization and embryo development rates, although these rates tended to be higher in C57BL/6NB mice. Pup body weight was higher in C57BL/6NKorl and C57BL/6NB mice than that in C57BL/6NA mice. The results of the present study suggest that C57BL/6NKorl, C57BL/6NA, and C57BL/6NB mice obtained from three different sources have similar fertilization and embryo development rates, although there were slight differences in the magnitude of their responses rates.

Degenerative mitral regurgitation is currently the most frequent indication for mitral valve repair.

Olfaction is a major sensory modality involved in real time perception of the chemical composition of the external environment. Olfaction favors anticipation and rapid adaptation of behavioral responses necessary for animal survival. Furthermore, recent studies have demonstrated that there is a direct action of metabolic peptides on the olfactory network. Orexigenic peptides such as ghrelin and orexin increase olfactory sensitivity, which in turn, is decreased by anorexigenic hormones such as insulin and leptin. In addition to peptides, nutrients can play a key role on neuronal activity. Very little is known about nutrient sensing in olfactory areas. Nutrients, such as carbohydrates, amino acids, and lipids, could play a key role in modulating olfactory sensitivity to adjust feeding behavior according to metabolic need. Here we summarize recent findings on nutrient-sensing neurons in olfactory areas and delineate the limits of our knowledge on this topic. The present review opens new lines of investigations on the relationship between olfaction and food intake, which could contribute to determining the etiology of metabolic disorders.

Background: West African immigrants in Europe are disproportionally affected by metabolic conditions compared to European host populations. Nutrition transition through urbanisation and migration may contribute to this observations, but remains to be characterised. Objective: We aimed to describe the dietary behaviour and its socio-demographic factors among Ghanaian migrants in Europe and their compatriots living different Ghanaian settings. Methods: The multi-centre, cross-sectional RODAM (Research on Obesity and Diabetes among African Migrants) study was conducted among Ghanaian adults in rural and urban Ghana, and Europe. Dietary patterns were identified by principal component analysis. Results: Contributions of macronutrient to the daily energy intake was different across the three study sites. Three dietary patterns were identified. Adherence to the 'mixed' pattern was associated with female sex, higher education, and European residency. The 'rice, pasta, meat, and fish' pattern was associated with male sex, younger age, higher education, and urban Ghanaian environment. Adherence to the 'roots, tubers, and plantain' pattern was mainly related to rural Ghanaian residency. Conclusion: We observed differences in food preferences across study sites: in rural Ghana, diet concentrated on starchy foods; in urban Ghana, nutrition was dominated by animal-based products; and in Europe, diet appeared to be highly diverse.

The aim of the present work was to study whether the leptin-adiponectin axis may have a pathophysiological role in the increased systemic inflammation and oxidative stress observed in patients with the metabolic syndrome (MS). Leptin, adiponectin, and markers of inflammation and oxidative stress were measured in a sample of 140 Caucasian subjects (74 males/66 females), aged 28-82 years, 60 with and 80 without the MS. Total concentrations of adiponectin as well as its multimeric forms HMW, MMW and LMW were significantly lower in individuals with the MS. The ratio adiponectin/leptin, a marker of dysfunctional adipose tissue, was dramatically decreased in the MS group. Systemic oxidative stress, as evidenced by levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), as well as markers of inflammation such as serum amyloid A (SAA), C-reactive protein (CRP) and osteopontin were significantly increased in subjects with the MS. Total adiponectin concentrations were negatively correlated with levels of TBARS and CRP levels. Furthermore, the ratio adiponectin/leptin was negatively correlated with SAA concentrations as well as with CRP levels. We concluded that a dysfunctional adipose tissue as suggested by a low adiponectin/leptin ratio may contribute to the increased oxidative stress and inflammation, hallmarks of the MS.

Gram-negative bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are associated with various negative health effects. Whether diet is associated with LPS, is an understudied phenomenon. We investigated the association between diet and serum LPS activity in 668 individuals with type 1 diabetes in the FinnDiane Study. Serum LPS activity was determined using the Limulus Amoebocyte Lysate assay. Diet was assessed with a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) section of a diet questionnaire and a food record. The food record was used to calculate energy, macronutrient, and fibre intake. In a multivariable model, energy, macronutrient, or fibre intake was not associated with the LPS activity. Using factor analysis, we identified seven dietary patterns from the FFQ data ("Sweet", "Cheese", "Fish", "Healthy snack", "Vegetable", "Traditional", and "Modern"). In a multivariable model, higher factor scores of the Fish, Healthy snack, and Modern patterns predicted lower LPS activity. The validity of the diet questionnaire was also investigated. The questionnaire showed reasonable relative validity against a 6-day food record. The two methods classified participants into the dietary patterns better than expected by chance. In conclusion, healthy dietary choices, such as consumption of fish, fresh vegetables, and fruits and berries may be associated with positive health outcomes by reducing systemic endotoxaemia.

Obesity, defined as excessive accumulation of fat in adipose tissue, is a metabolic disorder resulting from behavioral, environmental and heritable causes. Such malfunction increases the risk of developing hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, respiratory problems, osteoarthritis and cancer. Meanwhile, the negative impact of obesity on male reproduction is gradually being recognized. According to clinical investigations and animal experiments, obesity is correlated with reductions in sperm concentration and motility, increases in sperm DNA damage and changes in reproductive hormonal levels. Several underlying mechanisms account for the adverse effects of obesity on sperm vitality and male subfertility. Firstly, the excessive conversion of androgens into estrogens in redundant adipose tissue causes sexual hormonal imbalance, subsequently resulting in hypogonadism. Secondly, adipokines produced by adipose tissue induce severe inflammation and oxidative stress in the male reproductive tract, directly impairing testicular and epididymal tissues. Thirdly, increased scrotal adiposity leads to rises in gonadal temperature, continuously suppressing spermatogenesis. Therefore, obesity alters the systemic and regional environment crucial for testicular spermatogenesis and sperm maturation in the epididymis, and finally declines in sperm quality including sperm motility, abnormal sperm morphology and acrosome reaction, changes in membranal lipid composition as well as increases in DNA damage. Furthermore, a major effort to identify epigenetic determinants of obesity revealed that sperm DNA methylation and non-coding RNA modifications are associated with body mass index (BMI) changes, which are proposed to cause inheritance of metabolic comorbidities across generations. This review will explain how obesity-related changes in males influence sperm function and male fertility as well.

It has been 42 years since a protein, now known as interferon tau (IFNT), was discovered in ovine conceptus-conditioned culture medium. In 1975, purification and testing of native IFNT revealed its unique antiluteolyic activity to prevent regression of corpora lutea on ovaries of nonpregnant ewes. Antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory properties of native and recombinant IFNT were also demonstrated. In addition, progesterone and IFNT were found to act cooperatively to silence expression of classical interferon stimulated genes in a cell-specific manner in ovine uterine luminal and superficial glandular epithelia. But, IFNT signaling through a STAT1/STAT2-independent pathway stimulates expression of genes, such as those for transport of glucose and amino acids, which are required for growth and development of the conceptus. Further, undefined mechanisms of action of IFNT are key to a servomechanism that allows ovine placental lactogen and placental growth hormone to affect development of uterine glands and their expression of genes throughout gestation. IFNT also acts systemically to induce expression of interferon stimulated genes that influence secretion of progesterone by the corpus luteum. Finally, IFNT has great potential as a therapeutic agent due to its low cytotoxicity, anti-inflammatory properties and effects to mitigate diabetes, obesity-associated syndromes and various autoimmune diseases.

Small diameter sensory dysfunction resulting from diabetes has received much attention in the literature, while the impact of diabetes on alpha-motoneurons (MN) has not. In addition to this, the chance of developing insulin resistance and diabetes is increased in obesity. No study has examined the impact of obesity or diabetes on the biophysical properties of MN. Lean Zucker rats and Zucker Diabetic Fatty (ZDF) rats were separated into Lean, Obese (ZDF fed standard chow) and Diabetic (ZDF fed high fat diet that led to diabetes) groups. Glass micropipettes recorded hind-limb motoneuron properties from identified flexor and extensor motoneurons. Motoneurons were separated within their groups based on input conductance, which created high and low input conductance subpopulations for each. A significant shorter (20%) afterhyperpolarization half-decay (AHP1/2) was found in low conductance motoneurons for the diabetic group only, while the AHP1/2 tended to be shorter in the Obese group (19%). Significant positive correlations were found among Rheobase and input conductance for both lean and obese animals. No differences were found between the groups for the afterhyperpolarization amplitude (AHPamp), input conductance (IC), rheobase or any of the rhythmic firing properties (Frequency-Current slope and spike frequency adaptation index). Motoneuron properties continue to be heterogeneous in obese and diabetic animals. Obesity does not seem to influence lumbar motoneurons. Despite the motoneurons resistance to the impact of diabetes, the reduced AHP 1/2 decay and the tendency for a reduction in AHPamp may be the first sign of change to motoneuron function.

In obesity the increased O2 cost of breathing negatively affects the O2 cost of exercise and exercise tolerance. The purpose of the study was to determine whether, in obese adolescents, the addition of respiratory muscle endurance training (RMET) (isocapnic hyperpnea) to a standard body mass reduction program decreases the O2 cost of exercise and perceived exertion and increases exercise tolerance. 9 male obese adolescents (16.0±1.4 years [x±SD], body mass 114.4±22.3 kg) underwent 3 weeks of RMET (5 days/week); 8 age-and sex- matched obese adolescents underwent the standard body mass reduction program (CTRL). Before and after interventions patients performed on a cycle ergometer: incremental exercise; 12-min constant work-rate exercises (CWR) at 65% and 120% of gas exchange threshold (GET) determined before the intervention. Breath-by-breath pulmonary ventilation (V'E) and O2 uptake (V'O2), heart rate (HR) and ratings of perceived exertion for dyspnea/respiratory discomfort (RPER) and leg effort (RPEL) were determined. Body mass decreased (by ~3.0 kg) after both RMET and CTRL (P=0.001; GLM for repeated measures). Peak O2 and peak work rate were not affected by both interventions. During CWR<GET no changes were observed after both interventions. During CWR>GET the O2 cost of cycling (P=0.014), the slope of V'O2 vs. time (P=0.012), RPER (P=0.012), RPEL (P=0.016) and HR (P=0.001) decreased following RMET but not following CTRL, whereas V'E did not change. In obese adolescents RMET, superimposed on a standard body mass reduction program, lowered the O2 cost of cycling and perceived exertion during constant heavy-intensity exercise.

Oxytocin (OT) administration elicits weight loss in diet-induced obese (DIO) rodents, nonhuman primates and humans by both reducing energy intake and increasing energy expenditure (EE). Although the neurocircuitry underlying these effects remains uncertain, OT neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are positioned to control both energy intake and sympathetic nervous system outflow to interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT) through projections to both the hindbrain nucleus of the solitary tract and spinal cord. The current work was undertaken to examine whether central OT increases BAT thermogenesis, whether this effect involves hindbrain OT receptors (OTRs), and whether such effects are associated with sustained weight loss following chronic administration. To assess OT-elicited changes in BAT thermogenesis, we measured the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of OT on IBAT temperature (TIBAT) in both rats and mice. Because fourth ventricular (4V) infusion targets hindbrain OTRs, whereas third ventricular (3V) administration targets both forebrain and hindbrain OTRs, we compared responses to OT following chronic 3V infusion in DIO rats and mice with chronic 4V infusion in DIO rats. We report that chronic 4V infusion of OT into two distinct rat models recapitulates the effects of 3V OT to ameliorate diet-induced obesity by reducing fat mass. While reduced food intake contributes to this effect, our finding that 4V OT also increases BAT thermogenesis suggests that increased EE may contribute as well. These findings collectively support the hypothesis that in DIO rats, OT action in the hindbrain evokes sustained weight loss by both reducing energy intake and increasing BAT thermogenesis.

The endogenous opioid system supports a multitude of functions related to appetitive behaviour and feeding in humans and animals, and it has been proposed to support hedonic aspects of feeding thus contributing to development of obesity. Here we used positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate whether feeding results in hedonia-dependent endogenous opioid release in humans. Ten healthy males were recruited for the study. They were scanned with mu-opioid specific ligand [(11)C]carfentanil three times: following a palatable meal, a non-palatable meal, and after an overnight fast. Subjective mood, satiety, and circulating hormones were measured. Feeding induced significant endogenous opioid release throughout the brain. This response was more pronounced following non-palatable versus palatable meal, and independent of the subjective hedonic responses to feeding. We conclude that feeding consistently triggers cerebral opioid release even in the absence of subjective pleasure associated with feeding, suggesting that metabolic and homeostatic rather than exclusively hedonic responses play a role in the feeding-triggered cerebral opioid release.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENTEndogenous opioid system supports both hedonic and homeostatic functions. It has been proposed that overeating and concomitant opioid release could downregulate opioid receptors and promote development of obesity. However, it remains unresoleved whether feeding leads to endogenous opioid release in humans. We used in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) to test whether feeding triggers cerebral opioid release and whether this response is associated with pleasurable sensations. We scanned volunteers using mu-opioid receptor specific radioligand [(11)C]carfentanil three times: After an overnight fast, after consuming a palatable meal, and after consuming a non-palatable meal. Feeding led to significant endogenous opioid release, and this occurred also in the absence of feeding-triggered hedonia. Feeding-triggered opioid release thus also reflects metabolic and homeostatic rather than exclusively hedonic responses.

Intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) is a critical coordinator of various aspects of cellular physiology. It is increasingly apparent that changes in cellular Ca(2+) dynamics contribute to the regulation of normal and pathological signal transduction that controls cell growth and survival. Aberrant perturbations in Ca(2+) homeostasis have been implicated in a range of pathological conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, tumorigenesis and steatosis hepatitis. Intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations are therefore tightly regulated by a number of Ca(2+) handling enzymes, proteins, channels and transporters located in the plasma membrane and in Ca(2+) storage organelles, which work in concert to fine tune a temporally and spatially precise Ca(2+) signal. Chief amongst them is the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum (SR/ER) Ca(2+) ATPase pump (SERCA) which actively re-accumulates released Ca(2+) back into the SR/ER, therefore maintaining Ca(2+) homeostasis. There are at least 14 different SERCA isoforms encoded by three ATP2A1-3 genes whose expressions are species- and tissue-specific. Altered SERCA expression and activity results in cellular malignancy and induction of ER stress and ER stress-associated apoptosis. The role of SERCA misregulation in the control of apoptosis in various cell types and disease setting with prospective therapeutic implications is the focus of this review. Ca(2+) is a double edge sword for both life as well as death, and current experimental evidence supports a model in which Ca(2+) homeostasis and SERCA activity represent a nodal point that controls cell survival. Pharmacological or genetic targeting of this axis constitutes an incredible therapeutic potential to treat different diseases sharing similar biological disorders.

Obesity is a health problem in its own right and a risk factor for other conditions such as cardiovascular disease. The prevalence of overweight and obesity increased in Scotland between 1995 and 2008 with socio-economic inequalities persisting in adults over time and increasing in children. This paper explores changes in the underlying distribution of body mass index (BMI) which is less well understood.

The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) is an effective lifestyle intervention to reduce incidence of type 2 diabetes. However, there are gaps in knowledge about how to implement DPP. The aim of this study was to evaluate implementation of DPP via assessment of a clinical demonstration in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).

Although the scientific community has acknowledged modest improvements can be made to weight status and obesogenic behaviors (i.e., physical activity, sedentary/screen time, diet, and sleep) during the school year, studies suggests improvements are erased as elementary-age children are released to summer vacation. Emerging evidence shows children return to school after summer vacation displaying accelerated weight gain compared to the weight gained occurring during the school year. Understanding how summer days differ from when children are in school is, therefore, essential.

There is considerable evidence that metformin reduces weight gain associated with antipsychotic medication. The aim of this study was to develop an easy-to-use metformin prescribing tool in order to enable clinicians to prescribe metformin safely and confidently.

Nowadays, diabetes mellitus (DM) along with its complications is considered as a fundamental problem in both developing and industrial countries, and is causing millions of people to suffer worldwide. Currently, diabetes mellitus is diagnosed traditionally or classically in the world by measuring fasting blood glucose and conducting oral glucose tolerance test. New alternatives are required for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, especially type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), at its early levels due to the ineffective control of its development in patients. In recent years, by further identifying of molecular agents such as microRNAs (miRNAs), studies have focused on miRNAs in diabetes as well as in other diseases. These small non-coding RNA molecules have a significant role in the regulation of insulin gene expression and also, obesity problems. White adipose tissue, as an important tissue in obese subjects, is directly related to type 2 diabetes and its complications via synthesis of adipokines. Prevention and treatment of obesity should be noted since childhood. Our aim in this review is to briefly provide a new glance at types of potential biomarkers, which can be used as pharmacological targets for prevention and treatment of prediabetic subjects, and patients with T2DM.

Plants are the integral part of the traditional indigenous healthcare system and are becoming concrete source of new drug discovery, evident by the increasing numbers of modern drugs derived from the phytochemicals. Emblica officinalis Gaertn. or Phyllanthus emblica Linn (family Phyllanthaceae) has been explained extensively and well documented for its therapeutic efficacies in indigenous system of medicine, in India. Every part of this plant possesses high medicinal value but fruits are the most valuable part in folklore and therapeutic uses. The polyphenols found in E.officinalis, especially tannins and flavonoids are key responsible elements for major bioactivities. E.officinalis is one of the major component in various health tonics, also exerts synergistic effects in enhancing the medicinal efficacy. E.officinalis exhibits broad spectrum of pharmacological activities through various mode of actions including antioxidant, anticancer, immunomodulator, anti-inflammatory, cyto-protective properties etc. Medical practitioners across the globe also advocated its application in managing diabetes, dyslipidemia, obesity, several types of cancer, liver disorders, arthritis, gingivitis, wound healing etc. The present review analysed and summarized the pharmacological actions, experimental studies and clinical trials of E. officinalis with emphasis on its immuno-enhancer, antiinflammatory and anticancer activities and possible mechanism of actions to provide future directions in translating these findings clinically.

Currently, cardiovascular diseases are leading cause of global mortality, while diabetes mellitus remains an important cause of cardiovascular morbidity. Findings suggest that obesity and diabetes mellitus are closely interconnected with high aldosterone levels, while mineralocorticoid receptors antagonist therapy has shown positive effects on cardiovascular complications associated with diabetes mellitus. A recent study showed that patients with diabetes mellitus treated with mineralocorticoid receptors antagonist have improved coronary microvascular function, leading to improved diastolic dysfunction. The present study was carried out on 40 adult male Wistar albino rats (8 weeks old). In this study we evaluated the influence of acute administration of Spironolactone on myocardial function in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus, with special emphases on cardio-dynamic parameters in diabetic rat hearts. Rats were randomly divided into 4 groups (10 animals per group): healthy rats treated with 0.1 µM of Spironolactone; diabetic rats rats treated with 0.1 µM of Spironolactone; healthy rats treated with 3 µM of Spironolactone and diabetic rats treated with 3 µM of Spironolactone. Acute application of spironolactone has different effects on isolated working healthy and diabetic rat hearts. In healthy rats, better effects were achieved with higher spironolactone dose, however, in diabetics, low-dose spironolactone had better effects.

Previous adult studies have demonstrated associations of serum glypican 4 (Gpc4) and obesity parameters and insulin sensitivity. However, an association of serum Gpc4 and glucose metabolism remains contradictory. Study of serum Gpc4 in obese children has not been conducted. We aimed to determine serum Gpc4 levels in obese children with various degrees of obesity.

It has been suggested in the literature that periodontal disease (PD) is associated with cardiovascular risk. The objective of this study was to appraise the relationship between periodontal disease (gingivitis and periodontitis) and traditional cardiovascular risk factors (obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes and metabolic syndrome) among young and middle-aged adults attended at a health promotion and check-up center in the city of São Paulo, Brazil.

Childhood obesity is an important health problem worldwide. In this context, there is a need for the development and evaluation of innovative educational interventions targeting prevention and formation of health habits.

Obesity is a wide-spread condition directly or indirectly connected with an increase in the prevalence of a variety of human diseases. It affects over 50% of the western overall population. In 2017, a thorough analysis of 204 studies on obesity and cancer revealed that the condition increases the risk of the following types of cancer: stomach, colon, rectal, bile duct, pancreatic, esophagus, breast, endometrial, ovarian, kidney and multiple myeloma. The first study aiming at establishing a connection between obesity and the rate of induced orthodontic tooth movement was conducted by Saloom et al; however, it could not effectively nor significantly reveal any direct influence or effect. Despite being identified during the first week, differences could not be explained and treatment time remained unchanged. In spite of lack of studies in the literature on the connection between obesity and the rate of induced tooth movement, in clinical practice, courses or specialized training, we should not have protocols changed nor adopt any measures or expect significant differences between normal-weight and obese individuals. It should be emphasized that unsuccessful cases or cases of root resorption associated with treatment should not be assigned to obesity, since scientific data is insufficient to do so.

ZSF1 rats exhibit spontaneous nephropathy secondary to obesity, hypertension, and diabetes, and have gained interest as a model system with potentially high translational value to progressive human disease. To thoroughly characterize this model, and to better understand how closely it recapitulates human disease, we performed a high resolution longitudinal analysis of renal disease progression in ZSF1 rats spanning from early disease to end stage renal disease. Analyses included metabolic endpoints, renal histology and ultrastructure, evaluation of a urinary biomarker of fibrosis, and transcriptome analysis of glomerular-enriched tissue over the course of disease. Our findings support the translational value of the ZSF1 rat model, and are provided here to assist researchers in the determination of the model's suitability for testing a particular mechanism of interest, the design of therapeutic intervention studies, and the identification of new targets and biomarkers for type 2 diabetic nephropathy.

Several prediction models for fatty liver disease (FLD) are available with limited externally validation and less comprehensive evaluation. The aim was to perform external validation and direct comparison of 4 prediction models (the Fatty Liver Index, the Hepatic Steatosis Index, the ZJU index, and the Framingham Steatosis Index) for FLD both in the overall population and the obese subpopulation.This cross-sectional study included 4247 subjects aged 20 to 65 years recruited from the north of Shanxi Province in China. Anthropometric and biochemical features were collected using standard protocols. FLD was diagnosed by liver ultrasonography. We assessed all models in terms of discrimination, calibration, and decision curve analysis.The original models performed well in terms of discrimination for the overall population, with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs) around 0.85, while AUCs for obese individuals were around 0.68. Nevertheless, the predicted risks did not match well with the observed risks both in the overall population and the obese subpopulation. The FLI 2006 was 1 of the 2 best models in terms of discrimination (AUCs were 0.87 and 0.72 for the overall population and the obese subgroup, respectively) and had the best performance in terms of calibration, and attained the highest net benefit.The FLI 2006 is overall the best tool to identify high risk individuals and has great clinical utility. Nonetheless, it does not perform well enough to quantify the actual risk of FLD, which need to be (re)calibrated for clinical use.

This study is all about predicting the value of serum vaspin level in the amelioration of fatty liver and metabolic disturbance in patients with severe obesity after laparoscopic vertical banded gastroplasty (LVBG).

Years of research and clinical practice have demonstrated that individuals with certain mental health conditions are at an increased risk of obesity. However, no identified research has examined associations between multiple comorbid psychiatric disorders and body mass index (BMI). This study uses a secondary analysis to examine associations between a large number of combinations of various mental health conditions and BMI. Surprisingly, the results of this study indicate that the most comorbid psychiatric disorders are not associated with an increased risk of elevated BMI. However, bipolar disorder, agoraphobia, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and panic disorder had the greatest number of comorbid disorder associations linked with elevated BMI. The effect sizes ranged from a significant but relatively small Cohen's d of 0.3 to a more notable effect size of 0.7. The results of this study indicate that practitioners should be especially vigilant in helping their patients to avoid weight gain when they have one of the four identified disorders in combination with at least one other disorder. Future research is needed to understand the mechanisms underlying this increased risk and evaluate targeted interventions that would be the most effective for people with these diagnoses.

Obesity and overweight are recognized as epidemics of non-communicable diseases in the 21st century. The kidneys are a target organ for obesity, damage to which is considered to be an independent risk factor for the development of renal failure. Obesity-related glomerulopathy (OGP) is one of the types of renal injury in obesity, which is characterized by the development of proteinuria in patients with a body mass index (BMI) of >30 kg/m2 in the absence of other causes of kidney damage. The pathogenesis of OGP is multifactorial. It is associated with intrarenal hemodynamic disorders - the development of renal hyperfiltration, the damaging action of adipose tissue hormones (hyperleptinemia, activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, decreased production of adiponectin); with ectopic lipid accumulation in the kidney. The morphological pattern of OGP is characterized by a low glomerular density (oligonephronia) that leads to glomerular and tubular hypertrophy; by the development of perihilar focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), obvious podocyte damages, and the development of a fatty kidney. The clinical picture of OGP is characterized by the slow and gradual development of albuminuria, not exceeding Stage A3 (300-1999 mg/day). Approximately one-third of patients develop partial nephrotic syndrome with massive proteinuria, but without edema and hypoproteinemia. Complete nephrotic syndrome is observed in not more than 6% of patients with OGP. In the course of the disease, 50% of patients develop hypertension and more than 80% do dyslipidemia. Stages IV-V chronic kidney disease may develop 20-30 years after the disease occurs.

Associations between an elevated level of systemic trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) and an increased risk for adverse cardiovascular events have been proposed in recent years. Increasing experimental studies suggest a possible impact of TMAO in cardiovascular diseases. TMAO, the oxygenated product of TMA, is belonging to the class of amine oxides. Most of TMA derived from the bacterial metabolism of choline and L-carnitine is absorbed into the bloodstream, and then TMA is rapidly oxidized to TMAO by flavin-containing monooxygenase-3 (FMO3), a hepatic enzyme. Recent years, there has been considerable interest in the role of TMAO in various pathological states. Here we discuss the biosynthesis of TMAO and emerging clinical studies that have assessed TMAO as a biomarker for various cardiovascular and other diseases such as heart failure, kidney failure, thrombosis, cancer, obesity and atherosclerosis, and diabetes. We also summarize the interaction of TMAO with synthetic and traditional molecules that together affect circulating TMAO levels.

Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is a complex spectrum of diseases ranging from simple steatosis to Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH) with fibrosis, which can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The pathogenesis of NAFLD is complex, involving crosstalk between multiple organs, cell-types, and environmental and genetic factors. Dysfunction of the adipose tissue plays a central role in NAFLD progression. Here, we analysed transcriptomics data obtained from the Visceral Adipose Tissue (VAT) of NAFLD patients to understand how the VAT metabolism is altered at the genome scale and co-regulated with other cellular processes during the progression from obesity to NASH with fibrosis. For this purpose, we performed Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), a method that organizes the disease transcriptome into functional modules of cellular processes and pathways. Our analysis revealed the coordination of metabolic and inflammatory modules (termed "immunometabolism") in the VAT of NAFLD patients. We found that genes of arachidonic acid, sphingolipid and glycosphingolipid metabolism were upregulated and co-expressed with genes of proinflammatory signalling pathways and hypoxia in NASH/NASH with fibrosis. We hypothesize that these metabolic alterations might play a role in sustaining VAT inflammation. Furthermore, immunometabolism related genes were also co-expressed with genes involved in Extracellular Matrix (ECM) degradation. Our analysis indicates that upregulation of both ECM degrading enzymes and their inhibitors (incoherent feedforward loop) potentially leads to the ECM deposition in the VAT of NASH with fibrosis patients.

Easy-to-use and accurate methods to assess free-living activity energy expenditure (AEE) in preschool children are required. The aims of this study in healthy preschool children were to (a) evaluate the ability of the wrist-worn ActiGraph wGT3x-BT to predict free-living AEE and (b) assess wear compliance using a 7-day, 24-h protocol.

Vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) has shown potential benefits for obesity treatment; however current devices lack physiological feedback, which limit their efficacy. Changes in extracellular pH (pH&lt;sub&gt;e&lt;/sub&gt;) have shown to be correlated with neural activity, but have traditionally been measured with glass microelectrodes, which limit their in vivo applicability.

To describe the number of processed and ultra-processed food (PUPF) advertisements (ads) targeted to children on Argentinean television (TV), to analyse the advertising techniques used and the nutritional quality of the foods advertised, and to determine the potential exposure of children to unhealthy food advertising in our country.

- Bariatric surgery is performed in patients with a body mass index (BMI) > 40kg/m2, or BMI > 35 kg/m2 with obesity-related comorbidities. The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy are the most frequently used procedures.- On average, patients have lost 25-27% of their original weight 10 years after surgery.- Obesity-related comorbidities improve dramatically in many patients following surgery. The effect is most noticeable in patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 and obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome. - The prevalence of 30-day complications is < 5%. Mortality is < 0.2% in centres with a lot of experience. - Commonly occurring long-term complications of bariatric surgery include deficiencies, particularly of iron and vitamin B12, along with gallstone disease and sagging skin. - Specific complications can arise following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, such as internal herniation and hypoglycaemia, and these are often not recognised.

Nailfold capillaroscopy is the only method for morphological assessment of nutritive capillaries. The literature data about capillaroscopic findings of toes in healthy individuals are scarce.

We set out to determine the prevalence of tissue transglutaminase antibodies (anti-tTG) and celiac disease (CD) in children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes (T1D) and their first-degree relatives (FDR). The hypothesis was that the individuals with both diabetes and CD form a distinct subgroup in terms of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II genetics, islet autoantibodies, and clinical characteristics at diabetes diagnosis.

Preliminary data suggest that nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with early heart failure (HF). However, whether nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is directly associated with echocardiographic changes in cardiac structure or function remains unknown.

The relationship of diet quality assessed by established indices (HEI-2010, AHEI-2010, aMED, DASH) with adiposity measures was examined, especially visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL).

Multiple papers have studied the use of gene-environment (G-E) independence to enhance power for testing gene-environment interaction in case-control studies. However, studies that evaluate the role of G-E independence in a meta-analysis framework are limited. In this paper, we extend the single-study empirical Bayes type shrinkage estimators proposed by Mukherjee and Chatterjee (2008) to a meta-analysis setting that adjusts for uncertainty regarding the assumption of G-E independence across studies. We use the retrospective likelihood framework to derive an adaptive combination of estimators obtained under the constrained model (assuming G-E independence) and unconstrained model (without assumptions of G-E independence) with weights determined by measures of G-E association derived from multiple studies. Our simulation studies indicate that this newly proposed estimator has improved average performance across different simulation scenarios than the standard alternative of using inverse variance (covariance) weighted estimators that combines study-specific constrained, unconstrained, or empirical Bayes estimators. The results are illustrated by meta-analyzing 6 different studies of type 2 diabetes investigating interactions between genetic markers on the obesity related FTO gene and environmental factors body mass index and age.

Vitamin D deficiency is associated with wide range of pathologies. Some evidences have shown that low vitamin D circulating levels in children and adolescent are related to fat mass and obesity. The objectives of the present study were to characterize vitamin D status in children and adolescents and to determine if serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentration is related to adiposity assessed by body mass index (BMI). Serum 25(OH)D levels were measured by LIAISON method in 471 children and adolescents (2 to 18 years age) and analyzed according to gender, pubertal period, age, and BMI. An overall prevalence of 25(OH)D insufficiency and deficiency was present in the 67.1%. Lower 25(OH)D levels were found in females (25.56 ± 14.03 vs 29.71 ± 17.10 ng ml(-1); P = 0.004) and pubertal children (25.52 ± 13.97 vs 29.21 ± 16.83 ng ml(-1); P = 0.011). In addition, an inverse relation of BMI and age on 25(OH)D concentrations was observed in children. In conclusion, low vitamin D status was highly prevalent among children and adolescents. Of note, a non-lineal regression model showed that 39.6% of vitamin D levels variability was explained by BMI. These results indicate that adiposity assessed by BMI impacts vitamin D status.

The effects of chronic intranasal administration of 300 nmol/kg obestatin and its fragment FNAP-NH2 on behavioral activity and nociceptive threshold were examined in male Wistar rats with normal body weight or alimentary obesity. In normal rats, obestatin produced no effect on behavior and nociception, whereas FNAP-NH2 fragment enhanced risk-taking behavior. Rats with excess body weight demonstrated less pronounced risk-taking behavior and elevated nociceptive threshold in comparison with normal animals, but these differences were abolished by chronic administration of FNAP-NH2.

Recent research has highlighted executive function and neurocognitive deficits among individuals with eating and weight disorders, identifying a potential target for treatment. Treatments targeting executive function for eating and weight disorders are emerging. This review aims to summarize the recent literature evaluating neurocognitive/executive function-oriented treatments for eating and weight disorders and highlights additional work needed in this area.

Studies have consistently demonstrated a reciprocal relationship between internalizing disorders and several chronic physical health conditions. Yet, much of the extant literature fails to take into account the role of comorbidity among internalizing disorders when examining the relationship with poor physical health. The current study applied latent variable modelling to investigate the shared and specific relationships between internalizing (fear and distress factors) and a range of physical health conditions. Data comprised 8841 respondents aged 16-85 years who took part in the 2007 Australian National Survey of Mental Health and Wellbeing. Multiple indicator, multiple causes models were used to parse the shared and specific relationships between internalizing disorders and variables associated with poor physical health. The study found that several physical conditions were significantly related to mean levels of fear and distress. The results were broadly similar but minor differences emerged depending on whether lifetime or past 12 months indicators of mental disorders and physical conditions were utilized in the model. Finally, the results demonstrated that the association between individual mental disorders and physical health conditions are better accounted for by indirect relationships with broad transdiagnostic dimensions rather than including additional disorder-specific relationships. The results indicate that researchers should focus on common mechanisms across multiple internalizing disorders and poor physical health when developing prevention and treatment initiatives.

The influence of bariatric surgery on cardiovascular risks in Chinese diabetic patients remains unclear. Here, we aimed to explore the impact of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery (RYGB) on cardiovascular risks in Chinese diabetic patients with obesity.

Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common critical syndrome, with high morbidity and mortality. Patients with AKI typically have an adverse prognosis, from incident chronic kidney disease (CKD), progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), subsequent cardiovascular disease, and ultimately death. However, there is currently no effective therapy for AKI. Early detection of risk factors for AKI may offer a good approach to prevention or early intervention. Traditional risk factors include extreme age, many common comorbid diseases, such as preexisting CKD, some specific exposures, such as sepsis, and exposure to some nephrotoxic agents. Recently, several novel risk factors for AKI, such as hyperuricemia, hypoalbuminemia, obesity, anemia, and hyperglycemia, have been identified. The underlying mechanisms between these nontraditional risk factors and AKI and whether their correction can reduce AKI occurrence remain to be clarified. This review describes the current epidemiology of AKI, summarizes its outcome, outlines the traditional risk profile, and finally highlights some recently identified novel risk factors.

Eosinophils are typically considered to be specialized effector cells that are recruited to the tissues as a result of T helper type 2 (Th2) cell responses associated with helminth infections or allergic diseases such as asthma. Once at the site of injury, eosinophils release their cytotoxic granule proteins as well as preformed cytokines and lipid mediators, contributing to parasite destruction but also to exacerbation of inflammation and tissue damage. Accumulating evidence indicates that, besides their roles in Th2 responses, eosinophils also regulate homeostatic processes at steady state, thereby challenging the exclusive paradigm of the eosinophil as a destructive and inflammatory cell. Indeed, under baseline conditions, eosinophils rapidly leave the bloodstream to enter tissues, mainly the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, adipose tissue, thymus, uterus, and mammary glands, where they regulate a variety of important biological functions, such as immunoregulation, control of glucose homeostasis, protection against obesity, regulation of mammary gland development, and preparation of the uterus for pregnancy. This article provides an overview of the characteristics and functions of these homeostatic eosinophils.

Reportedly, fibromyalgia (FM) is frequently associated with reduced IGF-1 levels and GH hyporesponsiveness to different GH stimulation tests. Since there is a high prevalence of obesity in FM, and obesity itself is characterized by hyposomatotropism, the aim of this study was to assess IGF-1 levels and GH responsiveness in sixteen severely obese women suffering from FM, who, subdivided into two subgroups on the basis of their age-dependent IGF-1 values (> or <-2 SDS), underwent the combined GHRH plus arginine test. Four out of 16 obese women with FM (25%) had low IGF-1 SDS values, 2 cases of this subgroup (12.5%) failing also to normally respond to the test. Among patients with normal GH responses, 4 showed a delayed GH peak. The subgroup with low IGF-1 SDS values had higher BMI than that with normal IGF-1 SDS. GH peak and area under the curve were not correlated with CRP, ESR, or tender point score, while significant correlations were found with fat-free mass and fat mass. In conclusion, this study shows the existence of a high prevalence of GH-IGF-1 dysfunction in patients with both FM and obesity, presumably as a consequence of the obese rather than fibromyalgic condition.

Frailty is a state that encompasses losses in physical, psychological or social domains. Therefore, frail people demonstrate a reduced potential to manage external stressors and to respond to life incidents. Consequently, such persons are prone to various adverse consequences such as falls, cognitive decline, infections, hospitalization, disability, institutionalization, and death. Pre-frailty is a condition predisposing and usually preceding the frailty state. Early detection of frailty (i.e., pre-frailty) may present an opportunity to introduce effective management to improve outcomes. Exercise training appears to be the basis of such management in addition to periodic monitoring of food intake and body weight. However, various nutritional supplements and other probable interventions, such as treatment with vitamin D or androgen, require further investigation. Notably, many societies are not conscious of frailty as a health problem. In fact, people generally do not realize that they can change this unfavorable trajectory to senility. As populations age, it is reasonable to begin treating frailty similarly to other population-affecting disorders (e.g., obesity, diabetes or cardiovascular diseases) and implement appropriate preventative measures. Social campaigns should inform societies about age-related frailty and pre-frailty and suggest appropriate lifestyles to avoid or delay these conditions. In this article, we review current information concerning therapeutic interventions in frailty and pre-frailty and discuss whether a greater public awareness of such conditions and some preventative and therapeutic measures may decrease their prevalence.

Previous research has shown that a single dose of MDMA induce a dissociative state, by elevating feelings of depersonalization and derealization. Typically, it is assumed that action on the 5-HT2A receptor is the mechanism underlying these psychedelic experiences. In addition, other studies have shown associations between dissociative states and biological parameters (heart rate, cortisol), which are elevated by MDMA. In order to investigate the role of the 5-HT2 receptor in the MDMA-induced dissociative state and the association with biological parameters, a placebo-controlled within-subject study was conducted including a single oral dose of MDMA (75 mg), combined with placebo or a single oral dose of the 5-HT2 receptor blocker ketanserin (40 mg). Twenty healthy recreational MDMA users filled out a dissociative states scale (CADSS) 90 min after treatments, which was preceded and followed by assessment of a number of biological parameters (cortisol levels, heart rate, MDMA blood concentrations). Findings showed that MDMA induced a dissociative state but this effect was not counteracted by pre-treatment with ketanserin. Heart rate was the only biological parameter that correlated with the MDMA-induced dissociative state, but an absence of correlation between these measures when participants were pretreated with ketanserin suggests an absence of directional effects of heart rate on dissociative state. It is suggested that the 5-HT2 receptor does not mediate the dissociative effects caused by a single dose of MDMA. Further research is needed to determine the exact neurobiology underlying this effect and whether these effects contribute to the therapeutic potential of MDMA.

Circadian rhythms are widely known to govern human health and disease, but specific pathogenic mechanisms linking circadian disruption to metabolic diseases are just beginning to come to light. This is thanks in part to the development and application of various "omics"-based tools in biology and medicine. Current high-throughput technologies allow for the simultaneous monitoring of multiple dynamic cellular events over time, ranging from gene expression to metabolite abundance and sub-cellular localization. These fundamental temporal and spatial perspectives have allowed for a more comprehensive understanding of how various dynamic cellular events and biochemical processes are related in health and disease. With advances in technology, metabolomics has become a more routine "omics" approach for studying metabolism, and "circadian metabolomics" (i.e., studying the 24-h metabolome) has recently been undertaken by several groups. To date, circadian metabolomes have been reported for human serum, saliva, breath, and urine, as well as tissues from several species under specific disease or mutagenesis conditions. Importantly, these studies have consistently revealed that 24-h rhythms are prevalent in almost every tissue and metabolic pathway. Furthermore, these circadian rhythms in tissue metabolism are ultimately linked to and directed by internal 24-h biological clocks. In this review, we will attempt to put these data-rich circadian metabolomics experiments into perspective to find out what they can tell us about metabolic health and disease, and what additional biomarker potential they may reveal.

Diabetes and obesity are characterized by insulin resistance and chronic low-grade inflammation. An elevated plasma concentration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) caused by increased intestinal permeability during diet-induced obesity promotes insulin resistance in mice. Here, we show that LPS induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and protein levels of P300, an acetyltransferase involved in glucose production. In high-fat diet fed and genetically obese ob/ob mice, P300 translocates from the nucleus into the cytoplasm of hepatocytes. We also demonstrate that LPS activates the transcription factor XBP1 via the ER stress sensor IRE1, resulting in the induction of P300 which, in turn, acetylates IRS1/2, inhibits its association with the insulin receptor, and disrupts insulin signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of P300 acetyltransferase activity by a specific inhibitor improves insulin sensitivity and decreases hyperglycemia in obese mice. We suggest that P300 acetyltransferase activity may be a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of obese patients.Elevated plasma LPS levels have been associated with insulin resistance. Here Cao et al. show that LPS induces ER stress and P300 activity via the XBP1/IRE1 pathway. P300 acetylates IRS1/2 and inhibits its binding with the insulin receptor. The consequent impairment of insulin signaling can be rescued by pharmacological inhibition of P300.

Fungal peritonitis in a patient on peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a refractory injury accompanied by severe inflammation, predisposing patients to a poor prognosis. Defective clearance of necrotic tissue interferes with amelioration of tissue injury and induces abnormal tissue remodeling. In the recent reports, apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage (AIM, also called CD5L) prevents obesity, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute kidney injury. Here, we investigated potential roles of AIM in prevention of progression of fungal peritonitis models. AIM (-/-) mice subjected to zymosan-induced peritonitis exhibited progressive inflammation and sustained peritoneal necrosis tissue on day 28 after the disease induction, whereas there was an improvement in AIM (+/+) mice. This appeared to be caused by deposition of AIM at the necrotic peritoneum in AIM (+/+) mice. In vitro, AIM enhanced the engulfment of necrotic debris by macrophages derived from zymosan-induced peritonitis, M1- and M2a-like bone marrow derived macrophages, as well as by mesothelial cells. In addition, administration of recombinant AIM dramatically ameliorated severe inflammation associated with necrosis in zymosan-induced peritonitis of AIM (-/-) mice. Our observations suggest that AIM appears to be involved in the repair process of zymosan-induced peritonitis, and thus, could be the basis of development of new therapeutic strategies for PD-related fungal peritonitis.

This study aimed to evaluate whether the relationship between obesity and erosive reflux disease (ERD) is mediated by cardiometabolic risk factors. This cohort study included subjects who underwent repeated endoscopy. To assess whether the association between body mass index (BMI) and ERD development was mediated by cardiometabolic parameters, multivariate Cox proportional hazard models were fitted for mediation analysis. Of 15,154 subjects with negative index endoscopy findings during health check-up, 11,686 subjects who underwent repeated endoscopy were included. During follow-up, 1,367 incident ERD events (11.7%) were observed. Without mediation effect, the multivariate adjusted hazard ratio of BMI was 1.21 (95% CI, 1.03-1.42) in overweight and 1.39 (95% CI, 1.19-1.62) in obese individuals compared to normal weight individuals. When the metabolic syndrome was included as a mediator, the hazard ratio became 1.19 (95% CI, 1.00-1.40) in overweight and 1.29 (95% CI, 1.10-1.52) in obese individuals. Both systolic blood pressure and triglyceride level were found to fully mediate the effect of BMI on ERD. Fasting glucose level was a partial mediator. The estimated percentage of total effect mediated by cardiometabolic risk factors was 35.4%. Cardiometabolic parameters partially or fully mediate the association between overweight and obesity and incident ERD.

Endogenous cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) binds and activates STING to induce type I interferons. However, whether cGAMP plays any roles in regulating metabolic homeostasis remains unknown. Here we show that exogenous cGAMP ameliorates obesity-associated metabolic dysregulation and uniquely alters proinflammatory responses. In obese mice, treatment with cGAMP significantly decreases diet-induced proinflammatory responses in liver and adipose tissues and ameliorates metabolic dysregulation. Strikingly, cGAMP exerts cell-type-specific anti-inflammatory effects on macrophages, hepatocytes, and adipocytes, which is distinct from the effect of STING activation by DMXAA on enhancing proinflammatory responses. While enhancing insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation in hepatocytes and adipocytes, cGAMP weakens the effects of glucagon on stimulating hepatocyte gluconeogenic enzyme expression and glucose output and blunts palmitate-induced hepatocyte fat deposition in an Akt-dependent manner. Taken together, these results suggest an essential role for cGAMP in linking innate immunity and metabolic homeostasis, indicating potential applications of cGAMP in treating obesity-associated inflammatory and metabolic diseases.

In addition to controlling blood pressure, cardiac natriuretic peptides (NPs) can stimulate lipolysis in adipocytes and promote the "browning" of white adipose tissue. NPs may also increase the oxidative capacity of skeletal muscle. To unravel the contribution of NP-stimulated metabolism in adipose tissue compared to that in muscle in vivo, we generated mice with tissue-specific deletion of the NP clearance receptor, NPRC, in adipose tissue (Nprc(AKO) ) or in skeletal muscle (Nprc(MKO) ). We showed that, similar to Nprc null mice, Nprc(AKO) mice, but not Nprc(MKO) mice, were resistant to obesity induced by a high-fat diet. Nprc(AKO) mice exhibited increased energy expenditure, improved insulin sensitivity, and increased glucose uptake into brown fat. These mice were also protected from diet-induced hepatic steatosis and visceral fat inflammation. These findings support the conclusion that NPRC in adipose tissue is a critical regulator of energy metabolism and suggest that inhibiting this receptor may be an important avenue to explore for combating metabolic disease.

Metabolic syndrome and vascular dysfunction was suggested to be the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Xuefu Zhuyu decoction (XZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine used to treat metabolic syndrome and cardiac-cerebral vascular disease. The effects of XZD on ameliorating metabolic syndrome, amyloid-related pathologies and cognitive impairment in an animal model of AD with metabolic stress was investigated.

Thyroid hormones (TH) can increase cellular metabolism. Food deprivation in mammals is typically associated with reduced thyroid gland responsiveness, in an effort to suppress cellular metabolism and abate starvation. However, in prolonged-fasted, elephant seal pups, cellular TH-mediated proteins are up-regulated and TH levels are maintained with fasting duration. The function and contribution of the thyroid gland to this apparent paradox is unknown and physiologically perplexing. Here we show that the thyroid gland remains responsive during prolonged food deprivation, and that its function and production of TH increase with fasting duration in elephant seals. We discovered that our modeled plasma TH data in response to exogenous thyroid stimulating hormone predicted cellular signaling, which was corroborated independently by the enzyme expression data. The data suggest that the regulation and function of the thyroid gland in the northern elephant seal is atypical for a fasted animal, and can be better described as, "adaptive fasting". Furthermore, the modeling data help substantiate the in vivo responses measured, providing unique insight on hormone clearance, production rates, and thyroid gland responsiveness. Because these unique endocrine responses occur simultaneously with a nearly strict reliance on the oxidation of lipid, these findings provide an intriguing model to better understand the TH-mediated reliance on lipid metabolism that is not otherwise present in morbidly obese humans. When coupled with cellular, tissue-specific responses, these data provide a more integrated assessment of thyroidal status that can be extrapolated for many fasting/food deprived mammals.

S-phenylpiracetam is an optical isomer of phenotropil, which is a clinically used nootropic drug that improves physical condition and cognition. Recently, it was shown that S-phenylpiracetam is a selective dopamine transporter (DAT) inhibitor that does not influence norepinephrine (NE) or serotonin (5-HT) receptors. The aim of the present study was to study the effects of S-phenylpiracetam treatment on body weight gain, blood glucose and leptin levels, and locomotor activity. Western diet (WD)-fed mice and obese Zucker rats were treated daily with peroral administration of S-phenylpiracetam for 8 and 12weeks, respectively. Weight gain and plasma metabolites reflecting glucose metabolism were measured. Locomotor activity was detected in an open-field test. S-phenylpiracetam treatment significantly decreased body weight gain and fat mass increase in the obese Zucker rats and in the WD-fed mice. In addition, S-phenylpiracetam reduced the plasma glucose and leptin concentration and lowered hyperglycemia in a glucose tolerance test in both the mice and the rats. S-phenylpiracetam did not influence locomotor activity in the obese Zucker rats or in the WD-fed mice. The results demonstrate that S-phenylpiracetam reduces body weight gain and improves adaptation to hyperglycemia without stimulating locomotor activity. Our findings suggest that selective DAT inhibitors, such as S-phenylpiracetam, could be potentially useful for treating obesity in patients with metabolic syndrome with fewer adverse health consequences compared to other anorectic agents.

Obesity causes important alterations in the respiratory physiology like sleep obstructive apnoea (SOA) and obesity-hypoventilation syndrome (OHS), both associated with high morbidity and mortality. Also, these entities are clearly infradiagnosed and in the case of OHS the prevalence is unknown in the general obese population. To determine the prevalence of OHS in the population of patients with morbid obesity and to know the comorbidity related with OHS, the associated respiratory symptoms and the pulse oximetry alterations.

Studies evaluating the benefit of adding motivational interviewing (MI) to behavioral weight-loss programs (BWLPs) have yielded mixed findings.

Missing data is a common problem in epidemiological studies, and is particularly prominent in longitudinal data, which involve multiple waves of data collection. Traditional multiple imputation (MI) methods (fully conditional specification (FCS) and multivariate normal imputation (MVNI)) treat repeated measurements of the same time-dependent variable as just another 'distinct' variable for imputation and therefore do not make the most of the longitudinal structure of the data. Only a few studies have explored extensions to the standard approaches to account for the temporal structure of longitudinal data. One suggestion is the two-fold fully conditional specification (two-fold FCS) algorithm, which restricts the imputation of a time-dependent variable to time blocks where the imputation model includes measurements taken at the specified and adjacent times. To date, no study has investigated the performance of two-fold FCS and standard MI methods for handling missing data in a time-varying covariate with a non-linear trajectory over time - a commonly encountered scenario in epidemiological studies.

This study analyzes risk associations between metabolic syndrome (MetS) components and the extent and prognosis of renal cell cancer (RCC). The independent effect of each MetS component is unclear, but they may affect RCC prognosis.

We assessed the correlation between the visceral adiposity index (VAI; a useful indicator of adipose distribution and function) and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in participants with normal waist circumference. A cross-sectional study was conducted, which included 1834 Chinese adults. The blood pressure, anthropometric measurements, fasting and postprandial blood glucose, fasting insulin, and lipid profiles were measured. The VAI and HOMA-IR were calculated. Participants were divided into 4 groups according to the HOMA-IR level, and the correlation between the VAI and HOMA-IR was analyzed. The VAI gradually increased across the HOMA-IR quartiles ( P < .05), and a Pearson correlation analysis showed that VAI was positively related to the HOMA-IR ( P < .001) in males and females. After adjusting for the other covariates, VAI was independently correlated with the HOMA-IR. A logistic regression analysis indicated that VAI elevation was the main risk factor for the increased HOMA-IR in both genders. Overall, the VAI was closely correlated with the HOMA-IR in a population without central obesity.

To address the complex phenomenon of pediatric obesity, one must understand the physiological mechanisms regulating energy intake and inflammation. The peptide hormones leptin, ghrelin, and adiponectin are involved in both, but their functions are dysregulated in obesity. The purpose of this systematic review is (1) to characterize studies of nutrition interventions for weight management in children who measure these peptides as outcomes, (2) to assess risk of bias in the studies, and (3) to determine the relationships between these peptides and body mass index (BMI). Eligibility Criteria: Peer-reviewed articles written in English, published in 2001-2016, and describing randomized controlled trials of pediatric interventions involving a nutrition component with the outcome measures leptin, ghrelin, and/or adiponectin were included. Articles were excluded if the intervention involved pharmaceuticals, supplements, infant formula, breastfeeding, or surgery.

The study aimed to investigate the relationship between obesity and postsurgical gastroparesis syndrome (PGS), and to construct a scoring system and a risk model to identify patients at high risk.

C1q/TNF-related protein-9 (CTRP9) is a novel adipokine that has been shown to promote lipid metabolism, enhance insulin sensitivity and protect against cardiovascular disease. However, previous studies in humans have produced controversial results regarding the association between CTRP9 and insulin resistance. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationships between CTRP9 and insulin resistance in Chinese population.

The aim of this study was to examine sexual inactivity and occurrence of selected sexually transmitted infections in relation to body mass index. We used data from two large Danish population-based cross-sectional studies conducted in 1991-1995 (HPV-study: 6869 women, aged 22-32 years) and in 2004-2005 (Liva-study: 19,484 women, aged 18-45 years). Data were collected using a structured interview and measured weight, height, high-risk human papillomavirus DNA, Chlamydia DNA for the HPV-study and a structured questionnaire for the Liva-study. Overweight and obese women were more likely to have had no lifetime sexual partner or no sexual partner in the last year, e.g. obese women had a threefold (95% CI: 1.95-5.04) odds ratio of having had no sexual partner in the last year compared to normal weight women. Additionally, overweight and obese women had a lower likelihood of genital warts and high-risk human papillomavirus infection. A similar tendency was found for self-reported Chlamydia, but not with presence of Chlamydia DNA. If higher likelihood of no lifetime or recent sexual partners among overweight and obese women reflects unmet sexual needs, it could give rise to concern because quality of sexual life is associated with general quality of life.

The concerns of Dr. van Londen and colleagues are well founded (1). In the future, obesity and diabetes will occur more often as young adults age and will increase the exponential growth in ESRD rates 20-30 years later. These lifetime outcomes will remain distant and difficult to predict in young candidates. The risks of post-donation hyperfiltration, i.e., an unusually high single nephron glomerular filtration rate (sngfr), have been a concern of transplant centers for decades (2). This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Obesity is one of the most serious global public health challenges of the 21st century. The adjustment of gut microbiota is often recommended as an efficient strategy to treat obesity. This modulation of gut microbiota can be performed by many methods, including dietary intervention, antibiotic application, the use of prebiotics and probiotics, bariatric surgery and faecal microbiota transplantation. In most cases, positive effects have been observed in response to treatment, but invalid and even contrary effects have also been observed in some cases due to factors that are unrelated to intervention methods, such as genetic factors, patient age or gender, environmental microbiota, climate, geography and lifestyle. These factors can cause variation of gut microbial populations and thus should also be taken into consideration when selecting modulation strategies.

Previous studies have found that obesity could influence academic performance. The aim of this study was to systematically review the scientific evidence on the association between obesity and academic performance in school children. A systematic review of English articles was undertaken by using databases PubMed/Medline, ERIC, LILACS, SciELO and Web of Science. Cross-sectional and longitudinal studies examining the association between obesity and academic performance in children and adolescents, published between January 1990 and December 2016, were included. Risk of bias was assessed by using Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology. Thirty-four studies (23 cross-sectional and 11 longitudinal) matched all inclusion criteria and were included. Seven studies were classified as low risk of bias, 23 as medium risk and four as high risk. After controlling for covariates such as socio-economic status, parental education and physical activity, the association between obesity and academic performance becomes uncertain for most of the studies (55.9%). Therefore, at present, there is insufficient evidence to support a direct link between obesity and poor academic performance in school age children. In order to clarify this issue, we need more longitudinal studies with adequate sample sizes and that control for potential confounders.

Certain antibiotics detected in urine are associated with childhood obesity. In the current experimental study, we investigated two representative antibiotics detected in urine, florfenicol and azithromycin, for their early effects on adipogenesis, gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and bile acids in mice. Thirty C57BL/6 mice aged four weeks were randomly divided into three groups (florfenicol, azithromycin and control). The two experimental groups were administered florfenicol or azithromycin at 5 mg/kg/day for four weeks. Body weight was measured weekly. The composition of the gut microbiota, body fat, SCFAs, and bile acids in colon contents were measured at the end of the experiment. The composition of the gut microbiota was determined by sequencing the bacterial 16S rRNA gene. The concentration of SCFAs and bile acids was determined using gas chromatography and liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry, respectively. The composition of the gut microbiota indicated that the two antibiotics altered the gut microbiota composition and decreased its richness and diversity. At the phylum level, the ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes increased significantly in the antibiotic groups. At the genus level, there were declines in Christensenella, Gordonibacter and Anaerotruncus in the florfenicol group, in Lactobacillus in the azithromycin group, and in Alistipes, Desulfovibrio, Parasutterella and Rikenella in both the antibiotic groups. The decrease in Rikenella in the azithromycin group was particularly noticeable. The concentration of SCFAs and secondary bile acids decreased in the colon, but the concentration of primary bile acids increased. These findings indicated that florfenicol and azithromycin increased adipogenesis and altered gut microbiota composition, SCFA production, and bile acid metabolism, suggesting that exposure to antibiotics might be one risk factor for childhood obesity. More studies are needed to investigate the specific mechanisms.

We tested the hypothesis that sedentary occupation workers who meet the physical activity recommendations present a lower risk for metabolic syndrome (MetS) than their nonactive counterparts.

Vitamin D has been traditionally recognized as a vitamin quintessential for bone-mineral health. In the past 2 decades, numerous experimental and observational studies have highlighted the role of vitamin D in immunity, metabolic syndrome (obesity and diabetes), cancers, renal disease, memory, and neurological dysfunction. In this article, we review important studies that focused on the impact of vitamin D on blood pressure, myocardial infarction, peripheral arterial disease, heart failure, and statin intolerance. Amidst the current pool of ambiguous evidence, we intend to discuss the role of vitamin D in "high-value cardiovascular health care".

Survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) may experience endocrine dysfunction. This study evaluated growth and pubertal patterns in survivors of childhood ALL.

Sphingomyelin (SM) is among the most important biomolecules in eukaryotes and acts as both constructive components and signal carrier in physiological process. SM is catalyzed by a membrane protein family, sphingomyelin synthases (SMSs), consisting of three members, SMS1, SMS2 and SMSr. SMSs modulate sphingomyelin and other sphingolipids levels, thereby regulating membrane mobility, ceramide-dependent apoptosis and DAG-dependent signaling pathway. SMSs was found associated with various diseases. Downregulation of SMS2 activity results in protective effects against obesity, atherosclerosis, and diabetes, makes SMS2 inhibitors potential medicines. Structural guided specific drug design can be next breakthrough discriminating SMS2 from other homologues.

We aimed at evaluating the efficiency of a newly developed, advanced Bioimpedance Analysis (BIA-ACC®) device as a screening tool for determining the degree of obesity and osteosarcopenia in postmenopausal women with normal or decreased bone density determined by Dual-Energy X-Ray absorptiometry (DEXA) in a representative sample of Greek postmenopausal women.

Pituitary tumors represent 10-15% of all intracranial tumors; of these, prolactinomas account for 40-50% of cases. Prolactinomas usually respond well to dopamine agonists (DA) as first-line therapy. However, treatment resistance remains a concern. Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral alkylating agent that has shown promise in treating aggressive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas that are resistant to other therapies. To date, no control trials have been undertaken and only single case reports of pituitary tumors treated with TMZ have been published. A systematic literature search was conducted for studies reporting the use of TMZ for the treatment of prolactinomas that were resistant to standard therapy. In total, 42 reported cases were identified and included in our analysis: 23 cases of prolactin-secreting adenomas and 19 of prolactin-secreting carcinomas. Prior to TMZ administration, patients had exhibited tumor progression and had previously undergone various treatments including surgery, radiotherapy, and drug therapy. Tumor shrinkage was reported in 76% of patients. Reduced prolactin levels were observed in 75% of patients, while normalization of prolactin was reported in 8%. TMZ failure occurred in 20.6% of cases. Most patients exhibited no serious adverse effects. In conclusion, TMZ has potential for the treatment of highly aggressive and resistant prolactin-secreting adenomas and carcinomas, as demonstrated by tumor shrinkage or complete response and normalization of hormone hypersecretion, and exhibits good tolerability and few side effects.

Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is the most effective treatment for this disease. The cornerstone of the treatment of prostate cancer is inhibition of testosterone production which interrupts testosterone-induced growth of the prostate tumor. The dramatic decrease in testosterone levels, however, has several undesirable effects on the metabolic profile and bone metabolism and can also lead to fatigue, loss of libido, gynecomastia, and anemia, provoke vasomotor flushing, and generally affect the quality of life. Due to the long-term survival rates of patients with prostate cancer, treatment-related adverse effects are highly relevant and thus, in each clinical setting, the benefits of ADT must be weighed against treatment-related adverse effects. The current review focuses on the more recently described metabolic complications of androgen deprivation therapy, including obesity, diabetes, lipid alterations, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. In addition, it provides practical management recommendations drawn from the available guidelines issued by the American Diabetes Association and American Heart Association.

An insidious increase in the incidence of obesity, insulin resistance, and hyperlipidemia has led to an epidemic of type 2 diabetes worldwide. Tinospora crispa (T. crispa) is a familiar plant traditionally used in herbal medicine for diabetes; however, the major active ingredients of this plant are still unclear. In this study, we identified the therapeutic effects of borapetoside E, a small molecule extracted from T. crispa, in high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced obesity in mice. The therapeutic effects of borapetoside E in HFD-induced obese mice were assessed physiologically, histologically, and biochemically following intraperitoneal injection. Furthermore, we analyzed the expression of glucose and lipid metabolism-related genes and proteins in borapetoside E-treated obese mice. Compared with vehicle-treated mice, borapetoside E markedly improved hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis, hyperlipidemia, and oxygen consumption in obese mice, and the effects were comparable to or better than the drug metformin. In addition, borapetoside E suppressed the expression of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) and their downstream target genes related to lipid synthesis in the liver and adipose tissue. Borapetoside E showed beneficial effects in vivo, demonstrating that borapetoside E may be a potential therapy for the treatment of diet-induced type 2 diabetes and related metabolic syndromes.

Increased consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) has been linked to obesity. Obesity now affects one in six children in the United States. The purpose of this scoping review is to identify and review published studies that discuss skills and tools oral health professionals can use with children (under age 12) and their parents to encourage dietary changes to aid in preventing childhood obesity and reducing consumption of SSBs.

This study examines the association between body composition and dialysis mortality.

Bacterial communities in the mouse caecum and faeces are known to be altered by changes in dietary fat. The microbiota of the mouse small intestine, by contrast, has not been extensively profiled and it is unclear whether small intestinal bacterial communities shift with dietary fat levels. We compared the microbiota in the small intestine, caecum and colon in mice fed a low-fat (LF) or high-fat (HF) diet using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The relative abundance of major phyla in the small intestine, Bacteriodetes, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria, was similar to that in the caecum and colon; the relative abundance of Verrucomicrobia was significantly reduced in the small intestine compared to the large intestine. Several genera were uniquely detected in the small intestine and included the aerotolerant anaerobe, Lactobacillus spp. The most abundant genera in the small intestine were accounted for by anaerobic bacteria and were identical to those identified in the large intestine. An HF diet was associated with significant weight gain and adiposity and with changes in the bacterial communities throughout the intestine, with changes in the small intestine differing from those in the caecum and colon. Prominent Gram-negative bacteria including genera of the phylum Bacteroidetes and a genus of Proteobacteria significantly changed in the large intestine. The mechanistic links between these changes and the development of obesity, perhaps involving metabolic endotoxemia, remain to be determined.

Type 2 diabetes is a chronic metabolic disease characterized by persistent hyperglycemia resulting from progressive deficient of insulin in patients with a background of insulin resistance. Current treatment algorithms recommended by American Diabetes Association/The European Association for the Study of Diabetes promote a patient-centered approach that takes into account a comprehensive consideration of pharmacological properties of drugs, including glucose-lowering action, effects on body weight, correction on multiple pathophysiologic defects, tolerability, and long-term safety. Glucagon-likepeptide1 (GLP-1) receptor analogues are appealing due to the improved glycemic control in a glucose-dependent manner, modest weight loss and low risk of hypoglycemia. Areas covered: Semaglutide (Novo Nordisk), a once-weekly GLP-1 analogue, is currently in the phase III clinical trial for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. This article aims to review the pharmacological and clinical profiles of semaglutide based on the available clinical data. Expert opinion: Semaglutide achieved greater reduction from baseline in HbA1c in comparison to placebo. The greater proportion of patients in semaglutide group than that in placebo group achieved target HbA1c <7.0% and <6.5%, respectively. Semaglutide is the second GLP-1 analogue contributing to the reduced bodyweight and improving obesity related complications. More importantly, semaglutide is beneficial to diabetic patients with high cardiovascular risk according to the recently completed phase III trial. The incidence of gastrointestinal adverse effects increased with semaglutide dose.

The rise of childhood obesity in Latin America calls for research capacity to understand, monitor and implement strategies, policies and programmes to address it.

The prevalence of overweight and obesity is rapidly increasing among Latin American children, posing challenges for current healthcare systems and increasing the risk for a wide range of diseases. To understand the factors contributing to childhood obesity in Latin America, this paper reviews the current nutrition status and physical activity situation, the disparities between and within countries and the potential challenges for ensuring adequate nutrition and physical activity. Across the region, children face a dual burden of undernutrition and excess weight. While efforts to address undernutrition have made marked improvements, childhood obesity is on the rise as a result of diets that favour energy-dense, nutrient-poor foods and the adoption of a sedentary lifestyle. Over the last decade, changes in socioeconomic conditions, urbanization, retail foods and public transportation have all contributed to childhood obesity in the region. Additional research and research capacity are needed to address this growing epidemic, particularly with respect to designing, implementing and evaluating the impact of evidence-based obesity prevention interventions.

Childhood obesity rates in Latin America are among the highest in the world. This paper examines and evaluates the many efforts underway in the region to reduce and prevent further increases in obesity, identifies and discusses unique research challenges and opportunities in Latin America, and proposes a research agenda in Latin America for the prevention of childhood obesity and concomitant non-communicable diseases. Identified research gaps include biological challenges to healthy growth across the life cycle, diet and physical activity dynamics, community interventions promoting healthy child growth, and rigorous evaluation of national food and activity programs and regulatory actions. Addressing these research gaps is critical to advance the evidence-based policy and practice in childhood obesity tailored to the Latin American context that will be effective in addressing obesity.

The increasing prevalence of childhood obesity in Latin America poses a major public health challenge to the region. In response, many countries are implementing obesity prevention programmes aimed at modifying known risk factors. However, the limited scientific evidence inhibits the development and implementation of novel, effective interventions across the region. To address these gaps, the NIH Fogarty International Center convened a workshop of researchers, policymakers, programme implementers and public health advocates who are actively engaged in the region to prevent childhood obesity. Major aims of the meeting were to define the current status of childhood obesity, identify the scientific gaps in our understanding of the epidemic, point out the barriers and opportunities for research and outline a plan for capacity building in the region in the area of childhood obesity. This series of articles reflects the key outcome of the meeting and offers an analysis of the knowledge translation needed for evidence-based policy initiatives, a review of the research agenda and an evaluation of research capacity in the region. The goal of the papers is to inform the development of multidisciplinary and multisector research collaborations, which are essential to the implementation of successful childhood obesity prevention strategies in the region.

Addressing childhood obesity in Latin America requires a package of multisectoral, evidence-based policies that enable environments conducive to healthy lifestyles.

Citrullus colocynthis (L.) Schrad is extensively used to treat diabetes, obesity, fever, cancer, amenorrhea, jaundice, leukemia, rheumatism, and respiratory diseases. Chemical studies have indicated the presence of several cucurbitacins, flavones, and other polyphenols in this plant. These phytochemical constituents are responsible for the interesting antioxidant and other biological activities of C. colocynthis.

Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a common complication of chronic pancreatitis (CP). Past studies for DM risk factors in CP have been limited to single centers or highly focused on a single etiology such as alcoholic or hereditary disease. We studied risk factors for DM in a large population of patients with CP of all etiologies enrolled in the North American Pancreatitis 2 studies.

Weight-loss surgery requires lifelong lifestyle modifications for the maintenance of weight loss and health effects, and can affect both the individual and family. Earlier research indicates that the quality of social relationships has positive and negative influences on wellbeing and health. There is little research on family-life after a member has undergone gastric bypass (GBP) against obesity. Thus, this study aimed to develop a classic grounded theory about families with a member treated with GBP against obesity. The study design used classic grounded theory and included data from 16 interviews. Families' shared a main concern of unexpected changes after GBP, resulting in the theory Stabilizing family life, explained as a social process to decrease uncertainty and find stability and well-being in family interactions. The social process develops differently which entail families: attaining unity, returning to old patterns, or disconnecting to find stability, depending on the discrepancy in expectations and knowledge. This is affected by the overall life situation, life-stage and relationship quality. The theory highlights unexpected change as a potential challenge for the family, as well as how they resolve this. Hence, the theory can be applied in care strategies for families. Identification of families needing support to stabilize family life after GBP requires further research.

The pathogenesis of human obesity is the result of dysregulation of the reciprocal relationship between food intake and energy expenditure (EE), which influences daily energy balance and ultimately leads to weight gain. According to principles of energy homeostasis, a relatively lower EE in a setting of energy balance may lead to weight gain; however, results from different study groups are contradictory and indicate a complex interaction between EE and food intake which may differentially influence weight change in humans. Recently, studies evaluating the adaptive response of one component to perturbations of the other component of energy balance have revealed both the existence of differing metabolic phenotypes ("spendthrift" and "thrifty") resulting from overeating or underfeeding, as well as energy-sensing mechanisms linking EE to food intake, which might explain the propensity of an individual to weight gain. The purpose of this review is to debate the role that human EE plays on body weight regulation and to discuss the physiologic mechanisms linking EE and food intake. An increased understanding of the complex interplay between human metabolism and food consumption may provide insight into pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying weight gain, which may eventually lead to prevention and better treatment of human obesity.

The androgen receptor (AR) has context-dependent roles in breast cancer growth and progression. Overall, high tumor AR levels predict a favorable patient outcome, but several studies have established a tumor promotional role for AR, particularly in supporting the growth of estrogen receptor positive (ER-positive) breast cancers after endocrine therapy. Our previous studies have demonstrated that obesity promotes mammary tumor progression after ovariectomy (OVX) in a rat model of postmenopausal breast cancer. Here, we investigated a potential role for AR in obesity-associated post-OVX mammary tumor progression following ovarian estrogen loss. In this model, we found that obese but not lean rats had nuclear localized AR in tumors that progressed 3 weeks after OVX, compared to those that regressed. AR nuclear localization is consistent with activation of AR-dependent transcription. Longer-term studies (8 weeks post-OVX) showed that AR nuclear localization and expression were maintained in tumors that had progressed, but AR expression was nearly lost in tumors that were regressing. The anti-androgen enzalutamide effectively blocked tumor progression in obese rats by promoting tumor necrosis and also prevented the formation of new tumors after OVX. Neither circulating nor mammary adipose tissue levels of the AR ligand testosterone were elevated in obese compared to lean rats; however, IL-6, which we previously reported to be higher in plasma from obese versus lean rats, sensitized breast cancer cells to low levels of testosterone. Our study demonstrates that, in the context of obesity, AR plays a role in driving ER-positive mammary tumor progression in an environment of low estrogen availability, and that circulating factors unique to the obese host, including IL-6, may influence how cancer cells respond to steroid hormones.

This study aims to investigate the correlation between features of NAFLD among individuals with morbid obesity and the surrogate IR markers homeostasis model assessment (HOMA), product of triglycerides and glucose (TyG), and triglyceride-to-high-density-lipoprotein ratio (TG/HDL-c).

Varieties of intraoperative methods such as oversewing of staple lines or other reinforcement products are used for preventing the laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) complications. The aim of this study is to evaluate the complication rates of the gastric stapling alone versus stapling with oversewing invagination of the staple line in the LSG.

Leukocyte telomere length is shorter in response to chronic disease processes associated with inflammation such as diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 1999 to 2002 was used to explore the relationship between leukocyte telomere length and presumed NAFLD, as indicated by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, obesity, or abdominal obesity. Logistic regression models were used to evaluate the relationship between telomere length and presumed markers of NAFLD adjusting for possible confounders. There was no relationship between elevated ALT levels, abdominal obesity, or obesity and telomere length in adjusted models in NHANES (OR 1.13, 95% CI 0.48-2.65; OR 1.17, 95% CI 0.52-2.62, resp.). Mexican-American men had shorter telomere length in relation to presumed NAFLD (OR 0.07, 95% CI 0.006-0.79) and using different indicators of NAFLD (OR 0.012, 95% CI 0.0006-0.24). Mexican origin with presumed NAFLD had shorter telomere length than men in other population groups. Longitudinal studies are necessary to evaluate the role of telomere length as a potential predictor to assess pathogenesis of NALFD in Mexicans.

Minimally invasive aortic valve replacement (AVR) aims to preserve the sternal integrity and improve postoperative outcomes. In low risk patients, this technique can be achieved with comparable mortality to the conventional approach and there is evidence of possible reduction in intensive care and hospital length of stay, transfusion requirement, renal dysfunction, improved respiratory function and increased patient satisfaction. In this review, we aim to asses if these benefits can be transferred to the high risk patient groups. We therefore, discuss the available evidence for the following high risk groups: elderly patients, re-operative surgery, poor lung function, pulmonary hypertension, obesity, concomitant procedures and high risk score cohorts.

Weight management is increasingly incorporating endoscopic bariatric therapy (EBT). As the global burden of obesity and its comorbidities has increased, it is evident that novel therapeutic approaches will be necessary to address the obesity epidemic. EBTs offer greater efficacy than diet and lifestyle modification and lower invasiveness than bariatric surgery. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved two intragastric balloons and aspiration therapy for the treatment of obesity: Apollo Orbera is indicated for the treatment of Class I and Class II obesity, Re Shape Integrated Dual Balloon system is indicated for the same range with a comorbidity, and Aspire Bariatrics AspireAssist is approved for patients with a body mass index of 35-55 kg/m(2). These devices have proven safe and effective in clinical trials and are gaining commercial acceptance in the USA; the Orbera has been used extensively outside the USA for over 20 years. These devices will need to be delivered in the context of a multidisciplinary weight loss program, integrating comprehensive care of obesity. Patient selection is important, and ensuring appropriate patient expectations and understanding of alternatives such as pharmacologic therapy and surgery is essential. With several EBTs on the horizon, patients with obesity will have an even broader array of safe and effective options for weight management in the future.

Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is when fetuses and newborn infants have not reached their true growth potential as genetically defined. Fetuses with IUGR develop in a less than ideal environment that leads to epigenetic changes and marks infants' metabolism for the rest of their lives. Epigenetic changes affect insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels and lead to insulin resistance and ultimately to a metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is a constellation of illnesses that raise one's risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, and ischemic heart disease, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, central obesity, insulin resistance, and inflammation. The association between IUGR or prematurity and long-term insulin resistance, obesity, hypertension, and metabolic syndrome remains unclear. While studies have shown an association, others have not supported such association. If alteration of intrauterine growth can ultimately lead to the development of metabolic derangements in childhood and adulthood, and if such association is true, then early interventions targeting the health of pregnant women will ensure the health of the population to follow.

p66shc is a growth factor adaptor protein that contributes to mitochondrial ROS production. p66shc is involved in insulin signaling and its deletion exerts a protective effect against diet-induced obesity. In light of the role of skeletal muscle activity in the control of systemic metabolism and obesity, we investigated which is the contribution of p66shc in regulating muscle structure and function. Here, we show that p66shc(-/-) muscles are undistinguishable from controls in terms of size, resistance to denervation-induced atrophy, and force. However, p66shc(-/-) mice perform slightly better than wild type animals during repetitive downhill running. Analysis of the effects after placing mice on a high fat diet (HFD) regimen demonstrated that running distance is greatly reduced in obese wild type animals, but not in overweight-resistant p66shc(-/-) mice. In addition, muscle force measured after exercise decreases upon HFD in wild type mice while p66shc(-/-) animals are protected. Our data indicate that p66shc affect the response to damage of adult muscle in chow diet, and it determines the maintenance of muscle force and exercise performance upon a HFD regimen.

Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases (TIMPs) are inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) that regulate tissue extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover. TIMP4 is highly expressed in adipose tissue, its levels are further elevated following high-fat diet, but its role in obesity is unknown. Eight-week old wild-type (WT) and Timp4-knockout (Timp4 (-/-)) mice received chow or high fat diet (HFD) for twelve weeks. Timp4 (-/-) mice exhibited a higher food intake but lower body fat gain. Adipose tissue of Timp4 (-/-) -HFD mice showed reduced hypertrophy and fibrosis compared to WT-HFD mice. Timp4 (-/-) -HFD mice were also protected from HFD-induced liver and skeletal muscle triglyceride accumulation and dyslipidemia. Timp4 (-/-)-HFD mice exhibited reduced basic metabolic rate and energy expenditure, but increased respiratory exchange ratio. Increased free fatty acid excretion was detected in Timp4 (-/-)-HFD compared to WT-HFD mice. CD36 protein, the major fatty acid transporter in the small intestine, increased with HFD in WT but not in Timp4 (-/-) mice, despite a similar rise in Cd36 mRNA in both genotypes. Consistently, HFD increased enterocyte lipid content only in WT but not in Timp4 (-/-) mice. Our study reveals that absence of TIMP4 can impair lipid absorption and the high fat diet-induced obesity in mice possibly by regulating the proteolytic processing of CD36 protein in the intestinal enterocytes.

The association between low socioeconomic status (SES) and obesity is well documented. In the current research, a life history theory (LHT) framework provided an explanation for this association. Derived from evolutionary behavioral science, LHT emphasizes how variability in exposure to unpredictability during childhood gives rise to individual differences in a range of social psychological processes across the life course. Consistent with previous LHT research, the current findings suggest that exposure to unpredictability during childhood (a characteristic common to low SES environments) is associated with the adoption of a fast life-history strategy, one marked by impulsivity and a focus on short-term goals. We demonstrate that a fast life-history strategy, in turn, was associated with dysregulated weight-management behaviors (i.e., eating even in the absence of hunger), which were predictive of having a high body mass index (BMI) and being obese. In both studies, findings held while controlling for participants' current socioeconomic status, suggesting that obesity is rooted in childhood experiences. A serial mediation model in study 2 confirmed that effects of childhood SES on adult BMI and obesity can be explained in part by exposure to unpredictability, the adoption of a fast life-history strategy, and dysregulated-eating behaviors. These findings suggest that weight problems in adulthood may be rooted partially in early childhood exposure to unpredictable events and environments. LHT provides a valuable explanatory framework for understanding the root causes of obesity.

Human brown adipose tissue (BAT) can be activated to increase glucose uptake and energy expenditure, making it a potential target for treating obesity and metabolic disease. Data on the functional and anatomic characteristics of BAT are limited, however. In 20 healthy young men [12 lean, mean body mass index (BMI) 23.2 ± 1.9 kg/m(2); 8 obese, BMI 34.8 ± 3.3 kg/m(2)] after 5 h of tolerable cold exposure, we measured BAT volume and activity by (18)F-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computerized tomography (PET/CT). Obese men had less activated BAT than lean men (mean, 130 vs. 334 mL) but more fat in BAT-containing depots (mean, 1,646 vs. 855 mL) with a wide range (0.1-71%) in the ratio of activated BAT to inactive fat between individuals. Six anatomic regions had activated BAT-cervical, supraclavicular, axillary, mediastinal, paraspinal, and abdominal-with 67 ± 20% of all activated BAT concentrated in a continuous fascial layer comprising the first three depots in the upper torso. These nonsubcutaneous fat depots amounted to 1.5% of total body mass (4.3% of total fat mass), and up to 90% of each depot could be activated BAT. The amount and activity of BAT was significantly influenced by region of interest selection methods, PET threshold criteria, and PET resolutions. The present study suggests that active BAT can be found in specific adipose depots in adult humans, but less than one-half of the fat in these depots is stimulated by acute cold exposure, demonstrating a previously underappreciated thermogenic potential.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) was developed by the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III, identifying adults with at least 3 of 5 cardiometabolic risk factors (hyperglycemia, increased central adiposity, elevated triglycerides, decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and elevated blood pressure) who are at increased risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The constellation of MetS component risk factors has a shared pathophysiology and many common treatment approaches grounded in lifestyle modification. Several attempts have been made to define MetS in the pediatric population. However, in children, the construct is difficult to define and has unclear implications for clinical care. In this Clinical Report, we focus on the importance of screening for and treating the individual risk factor components of MetS. Focusing attention on children with cardiometabolic risk factor clustering is emphasized over the need to define a pediatric MetS.

The relationship between plasma C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) concentration and height velocity in children has long been studied, and CNP has been implicated as an emerging new growth marker during childhood. Recent studies reported that besides its well-studied role in growth, plasma CNP levels are reduced in adolescents with overweight and/or obesity suggesting CNP as a potential biomarker in childhood obesity. The primary goal of this study was to test this hypothesis in a Turkish population.

Obesity affects almost all systems in the body and can also cause injury to the retinal nerve fibers due to a chronic inflammatory processAim: To determine changes in retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness in non-diabetic children and adolescents using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and to evaluate the relation between this change and metabolic risk factors and pubertal stage.

International surveillance data suggests a worldwide epidemic of pediatric obesity regardless of geographic, socioeconomic, racial and ethnic factors. Reversing this epidemic of pediatric obesity will require recognition and understanding of the pathophysiology of the condition to enable us to develop novel therapies as well as taking measures to shift social attitudes and public policies at a global level. Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) deficiency is a rare monogenic disorder of early-onset obesity, which has increased our insight into the important role of the leptin-melanocortin pathway in energy balance. Here, we present a patient with POMC deficiency due to a homozygous c.206delC mutation in the POMC gene. We discuss the recognition of this condition in relation to previous literature with emphasis on the crosstalk between hypothalamic and peripheral signals in the development of obesity and the POMC- melanocortin 4 receptors (MC4R) system as a target for therapeutic intervention.

Breast cancer survivors face dual challenges: long term sequelae of treatment, and risk of recurrent disease. Obesity and a sedentary lifestyle complicate both challenges. The WISER Survivor trial assessed the effects of exercise and/or weight-loss on lymphedema, biomarkers of breast cancer recurrence, and quality of life. We report on the innovative transdisciplinary design of this trial and report attrition rates.

The use of parent-focused internet-based programs for the prevention and treatment of childhood obesity has shown promise but there is an acknowledged gap in parent-focused interventions which target the early childhood stage.

For decades, there has been speculation regarding the interaction of cannabinoids with glucocorticoid systems. Given the functional redundancy between many of the physiological effects of glucocorticoids and cannabinoids, it was originally speculated that the biological mechanisms of cannabinoids were mediated by direct interactions with glucocorticoid systems. With the discovery of the endocannabinoid system, additional research demonstrated that it was actually the opposite; glucocorticoids recruit endocannabinoid signaling, and that the engagement of endocannabinoid signaling mediated many of the neurobiological and physiological effects of glucocorticoids. With the development of advances in pharmacology and genetics, significant advances in this area have been made, and it is now clear that functional interactions between these systems are critical for a wide array of physiological processes. The current review acts a comprehensive summary of the contemporary state of knowledge regarding the biological interactions between glucocorticoids and endocannabinoids, and their potential role in health and disease.

Epicardial fat (EF) is increased in obesity and has important interactions with atrial and ventricular myocardium. Most of the evidence in this scenario can be confused by the presence of comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidemia, which are very common in this population. The influence of EF on atrial remodeling and cardiac function demands further investigation on morbidly obese without these comorbidities.

Lipid droplets (LDs) are ubiquitous cellular organelles for lipid storage which are composed of a neutral lipid core bounded by a protein decorated phospholipid monolayer. Although lipid storage is their most obvious function, LDs are far from inert as they participate in maintaining lipid homeostasis through lipid synthesis, metabolism, and transportation. Furthermore, they are involved in cell signaling and other molecular events closely associated with human disease such as dyslipidemia, obesity, lipodystrophy, diabetes, fatty liver, atherosclerosis, and others. The last decade has seen a great increase in the attention paid to LD biology. Regardless, many fundamental features of LD biology remain obscure. In this review, we will discuss key aspects of LD biology including their biogenesis, growth and regression. We will also summarize the current knowledge about the role LDs play in human disease, especially from the perspective of the dynamics of the associated proteins. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cardiac Adaptations to Obesity, Diabetes and Insulin Resistance: Novel Targets and Therapies, edited by Dr. Jan Glatz, Professor Jason Dyck and Dr. Christine Des Rosiers.

The majority of the food insecurity-obesity research has indicated a positive association among women, especially minority women. Less research has been conducted on men, and the findings are inconsistent. The aim was to assess whether gender and race/ethnic disparities exists between the food insecurity and overweight/obesity relationship among adults ages 18-59. We used the cross-sectional 2011 and 2012 National Health Interview Survey data (N = 19,990). Three or more affirmative responses on the 10-item USDA Food Security Scale indicated food insecure experiences. Self-reported height and weight were used to calculate body mass index according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Multivariate logistic regression models were stratified by gender and race/ethnicity to estimate the association between food insecurity and overweight/obesity controlling for several demographic characteristics. Adults on average were 36 years of age (51% female; 56% white, 27% Hispanic, and 17% black), 27% were food insecure, and 65% were overweight/obese. Food insecurity was most prevalent among blacks and Hispanics, regardless of gender. A greater percentage of food insecure women were overweight/obese compared to food secure women among all race/ethnicity groups; while similar proportions of white, black, and Hispanic men were overweight/obese irrespective of their food security status. In covariate-adjusted models, food insecurity was associated with a 41% and 29% higher odds of being overweight/obese among white and Hispanic women, respectively. Food insecurity was not related to overweight/obesity among black women nor among white, black, and Hispanic men. The complex relationship between food insecurity and obesity suggests a need to investigate potential behavioral and physiological mechanisms, and moderators of this relationship.

Bariatric surgery represents the most efficient therapy for severe obesity. It reduces the size of fat stores or the amount of body fat gain. The bariatric surgery procedures currently used include Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy, which are the most commonly performed procedures. Other procedures are laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding and biliopancreatic diversion. The latter represents the most effective surgery for treatment of severe obesity as well as type 2 diabetes. Bariatric surgery reduces energy intake by restricting the size of the stomach reservoir and causing malabsorption, as in the case of biliopancreatic diversion. The present article provides an overview of the literature on the effects of bariatric surgery on energy homeostasis. Accumulated evidence has indicated that the effects of bariatric surgery on energy balance can encompass complex components including effects on the corticolimbic appetitive network, with modulatory effects exerted through changes in gastrointestinal hormones, bile acid production and microbiota composition. The reorganization of the gastrointestinal tract has been shown to reduce the rewarding effects of palatable food and impulsive eating, while elevating anorexigenic hormones glucagon-like peptide 1 and peptide tyrosine tyrosine to stimulate the production of bile acids and normalize the obesogenic gut microbiota. Bariatric surgery could also increase energy expenditure, which represents, like energy intake, a key component of the energy balance equation.

According to the most recent publication by the Canadian Public Health Agency, obesity affects 25% of adults. In addition, there is a clear association between the recent rise in obesity and the increased prevalence of type 2 diabetes. Medical therapy for obesity has shown limited long-term effectiveness, and surgical treatment is now recognized by medical authorities as part of the armamentarium for the management of type 2 diabetes in severely obese patients. The current indications for obesity surgery and postoperative management are reviewed. The choice of surgery should balance expected benefits associated with weight loss (including remission rate of type 2 diabetes), side effects and the risks for early and long-term complications. Long-term outcomes of metabolic surgery for diabetes vary according to the type of surgery (ranging between 20% and 90% remission rates) and the underlying metabolic changes. Several controlled trials have been published in recent years confirming the superiority of metabolic surgery over medical treatment for the management of type 2 diabetes associated with severe obesity. Some of the known underlying mechanisms of action include a combination of caloric restriction, hormonal changes, decreased nutrient absorption and changes in bile acids, microbiota and incretins. Further research is needed to clarify the mechanistic changes associated with each surgical procedure and their respective long-term outcomes.

In the short-term, laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy has been shown to be effective for the treatment of the type 2 diabetes in patients with severe obesity. There are few data with greater follow-up. Our aim was to evaluate the results of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy on the control of type 2 diabetes in patients with severe obesity at 5 years at the University Hospital, France.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is one of the most common complications of obesity. The Vitis vinifera L. grape skin extract (ACH09) is an important source of polyphenols, which are related to its antioxidant and antihyperglycemic activities. We hypothesized that ACH09 could also exert beneficial effects on metabolic disorders associated with obesity and evaluated ACH09's influence on high-fat (HF) diet-induced hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance in C57BL/6 mice. The animals were fed a standard diet (10% fat, control) or an HF diet (60% fat, HF) with or without ACH09 (200mg/[kg d]) for 12weeks. Our results showed that ACH09 reduced HF diet-induced body weight gain, prevented hepatic lipid accumulation and steatosis, and improved hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. The underlying mechanisms of these beneficial effects of ACH09 may involve the activation of hepatic insulin-signaling pathway because the expression of phosphorylated insulin receptor substrate-1, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phosphorylated Akt serine/threonine kinase 1, and glucose transporter 2 was increased by ACH09 and correlated with improvement of hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and insulin resistance. ACH09 reduced the expression of the lipogenic factor sterol regulatory-element binding protein-1c in the liver and upregulated the lipolytic pathway (phosphorylated liver kinase B1/phosphorylated adenosine-monophosphate-activated protein kinase), which was associated with normal hepatic levels of triglyceride and cholesterol and prevention of steatosis. ACH09 prevented the hepatic oxidative damage in HF diet-fed mice probably by restoration of antioxidant activity. In conclusion, ACH09 protected mice from HF diet-induced obesity, insulin resistance, and hepatic steatosis. The regulation of hepatic insulin signaling pathway, lipogenesis, and oxidative stress may contribute to ACH09's protective effect.

Uric acid (UA) has been suggested as a novel risk factor for diabetes. However, its definite role in this prevalent disease is still the subject of much discussion because it is always accompanied with other major risk factors such as obesity and high visceral adiposity. In order to clarify the role of UA in diabetes, this study aimed to investigate the associations between plasma UA and fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, lipid profile and inflammatory markers after accounting for the contribution of other diabetes risk factors such as BMI and VAT fat mass.

More than two-thirds of Americans are overweight or obese (69%) placing them at high risk for a wide array of chronic diseases. Physical activity anchors most approaches to obesity prevention and weight management, but physical activity levels remain low in the general US population. As a group, citizen athletes who compete in Nordic skiing events such as the American Birkebeiner participate in fitness cultures that promote physical activity.

Several studies associated high-fat intakes with a high incidence of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Lutein and Zeaxanthin isomers (L/Zi) may counteract reactive oxygen species produced by oxidative stress. The present study was conducted to determine the possible effects of L/Zi administration on lipid profile, protein genes associated with oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in the obesity induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) in rodents.

Nephrolithiasis (NL) is known to be associated with gout, although there are few comparative studies on risk and risk factors for NL in gout compared to population cohorts. In this cohort study we investigated: (1) overall incidence of NL in gout (cases) and general population controls; (2) risk and risk factors (common comorbidities and medications) for first-time NL in cases and controls separately.

Studies have indicated that people with disabilities die earlier and may experience a poorer health than the general population. This study investigated 31 factors related to health and well-being, health behaviour and social relations among Danish adults with activity limitation (AL).

We evaluated the associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms and different clinical parameters related to type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), obesity risk, and metabolic syndrome (MS) in a Kazakh cohort.

Maternal stature and body mass indices (BMI) of non-pregnant women (NPW) of child bearing age are relevant to maternal and offspring health. The objective was to compare anthropometric indices of NPW in four rural communities in low- to low-middle income countries (LMIC).

Testosterone is the principal endogenous androgenic-anabolic steroid in humans. The levels of testosterone in the human body are correlated with many hormonal disorders (hypogonadism, impotence, etc) mostly in men, and with many types of diseases such as: prostate cancer, metabolic syndrome, obesity, cardiovascular diseases and so on. Testosterone is extensively used among sportsmen willing to increase strength, aggressiveness, and recovery; making it the most commonly reported substance in steroid abuse. Fast, easy and cheap methods for the evaluation of testosterone are extremely needed in clinics and hospitals. This review is dedicated to surveying recent determination methods of testosterone from different biological samples such as: serum, saliva, plasma, urine or fingernail samples. After a brief description of the role of this steroid hormone in the biomedical field, various types of determination methods are described. The most important methods are immunoassays, liquid chromatography tandem mass-spectrometry and electrochemical methods. Different types of sensors were designed for the rapid assessment of testosterone: immunosensors, biosensors, stochastic or multimode sensors. One can conclude that to date, the available methods of analysis can cover a wide concentration range, able to detect testosterone from children`s saliva, where the levels are the lowest (using stochastic sensors), to whole blood, where electrochemical, immunological and chromatographic methods can be used.

With cardiovascular disease accounting for approximately 50% of deaths in patients diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, it is pertinent to initiate anti-diabetic medications with cardiovascular benefits. This systematic clinical review critically examines the clinical therapeutic effect of lixisenatide.

The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of maternal obesity on fetal size in first- and second-trimester pregnancies and to determine duration of pregnancy as estimated by a variety of methods.

Objective: To investigate possible effect of 6 obesity-associated SNPs in contribution to central obesity and examine whether there is an interaction in the 6 SNPs in the cause of central obesity in school-aged children in China. Methods: A total of 3 502 school-aged children who were included in Beijing Child and Adolescent Metabolic Syndrome (BCAMS) Study were selected, and based on the age and sex specific waist circumference (WC) standards in the BCAMS study, 1 196 central obese cases and 2 306 controls were identified. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood white cells using the salt fractionation method. A total of 6 single nucleotide polymorphisms (FTO rs9939609, MC4R rs17782313, BDNF rs6265, PCSK1 rs6235, SH2B1 rs4788102, and CSK rs1378942) were genotyped by TaqMan allelic discrimination assays with the GeneAmp 7900 sequence detection system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA). Logistic regression model was used to investigate the association between 6 SNPs and central obesity. Gene-gene interactions among 6 polymorphic loci were analyzed by using the Generalized Multifactor Dimensionality Reduction (GMDR) method, and then logistic regression model was constructed to confirm the best combination of loci identified in the GMDR. Results: After adjusting gender, age, Tanner stage, physical activity and family history of obesity, the FTO rs9939609-A, MC4R rs17782313-C and BDNF rs6265-G alleles were associated with central obesity under additive genetic model (OR=1.24, 95%CI: 1.06-1.45, P=0.008; OR=1.26, 95%CI: 1.11-1.43, P=2.98×10(-4); OR=1.18, 95% CI: 1.06-1.32, P=0.003). GMDR analysis showed a significant gene-gene interaction between MC4R rs17782313 and BDNF rs6265 (P=0.001). The best two-locus combination showed the cross-validation consistency of 10/10 and testing accuracy of 0.539. This interaction showed the maximum consistency and minimum prediction error among all gene-gene interaction models evaluated. Moreover, the combination of MC4R rs17782313-C and BDNF rs6265-G was associated with an increased risk of central obesity after adjustment for gender, age, Tanner stage, physical activity and family history of obesity. Conclusions: Our study showed that FTO rs9939609-A, MC4R rs17782313-C and BDNF rs6265-G alleles were associated with central obesity, and statistical interaction between MC4R rs17782313-C and BDNF rs6265-G increased risk of central obesity in school-aged children in China.

Predictors of subclinical inflammatory obesity (SIO) can be important tools for early therapeutic interventions in obesity-related comorbidities. Waist circumference (WC) and BMI have different SIO sensitivity. We aimed to i) identify SIO predictors and ii) investigate whether CD16+ monocytes are associated with BMI- (generally) or WC-defined (centrally) obesity.

Diagnostic criteria for complex medical conditions caused by a multitude of both genetic and environmental factors should be descriptive and avoid any attribution of causality. Furthermore, the wording used to describe a disorder should be evidence-based and avoid stigmatization of the affected individuals. Both terminology and categorizations should be readily comprehensible for healthcare professionals and guide clinical decision making. Uncertainties with respect to diagnostic issues and their implications may be addressed to direct future clinical research. In this context, the European Association of the Study of Obesity (EASO) considers it an important endeavor to review the current ICD-11 Beta Draft for the definition of overweight and obesity and to propose a substantial revision. We aim to provide an overview of the key issues that we deem relevant for the discussion of the diagnostic criteria. We first discuss the current ICD-10 criteria and those proposed in the ICD 11 Beta Draft. We conclude with our own proposal for diagnostic criteria, which we believe will improve the assessment of patients with obesity in a clinically meaningful way.

Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) was initially described in 1976. In 1981, Dr. Guilleminault emphasized that pediatric OSA was different from the clinical presentation reported in adults. It was characterized by more disturbed nocturnal sleep than excessive daytime sleepiness, and presented more behavioral problems, particularly school problems, hyperactivity, nocturnal enuresis, sleep terrors, depression, insomnia, and psychiatric problems. The underlying causes of pediatric OSA are complex. Such factors as adenotonsillar hypertrophy, obesity, anatomical and neuromuscular factors, and hypotonic neuromuscular disease are also involved. Adenotonsillectomy (T&amp;A) has been the recommended treatment for pediatric OSA, but in the recent past this practice has been placed very much in question. Therefore, we will discuss the mechanism of pediatric OSA and investigate obese and nonobese pediatric sleep-disordered breathing. Moreover, the important concept that dysfunction leads to the dysmorphism that impacts on the size of the upper airway has been advanced recently. Finally, the treatments of pediatric OSA, such as T&amp;A, medication, the orthodontic approaches (rapid maxillary expansion, or mandibular advancement with functional appliances), positive airway pressure, and noninvasive treatment, such as myofunctional therapy (MFT), will be investigated. A "passive MFT" has been tried recently, but very few results exist. In conclusion, we have made progress in our understanding of pediatric OSA, and we can even recognize factors leading to its development or worsening. However, pediatricians and pediatric subspecialists are often unaware of the advances and the remedies available.

Although a number of studies have examined the relationship between depression and obesity, it is still insufficient to establish the specific pattern of relationship between depression and body mass index (BMI) categories. Thus, this study was aimed to investigate the relationship between depression and BMI categories.

The relationship between body mass index (BMI) with mortality risk, in particular the BMI category associated with the lowest all-cause and CVD-and-stroke mortality and the BMI threshold for defining overweight or obesity in older persons is controversial. This study investigated the age-dependent associations of BMI categories with all-cause and cardiovascular disease (CVD) and stroke mortality.

Type I interferon-dependent expansion of intrahepatic CD8(+) T cells promotes systemic insulin resistance in obesity.

Sinonasal disease can contribute to poor asthma control. There are reports that link obesity with an increased prevalence of sinonasal disease, but no studies evaluating the severity of sinonasal disease in obese asthmatics, and how this impacts asthma control. The purpose of the current study was to determine if obesity is associated with increased severity of sinonasal disease, and/or affects response to nasal corticosteroid treatment in asthma.

The objective was to determine vitamin D levels in patients between the ages 6 and 18 years, followed for asthma, and the relation between vitamin D levels and asthma control and severity.

To study the association between the metabolic syndrome (MS) and the glycemic load (GL) of food intake among obese children and adolescents seen in consultation by the endocrinology team in a pediatric referral hospital in Lima, Peru.

Obesity is associated with chronic, low-grade inflammation, which can disrupt homeostasis within tissue microenvironments. Given the correlation between obesity and relative risk of death from cancer, we investigated whether obesity-associated inflammation promotes metastatic progression. We demonstrate that obesity causes lung neutrophilia in otherwise normal mice, which is further exacerbated by the presence of a primary tumour. The increase in lung neutrophils translates to increased breast cancer metastasis to this site, in a GM-CSF- and IL5-dependent manner. Importantly, weight loss is sufficient to reverse this effect, and reduce serum levels of GM-CSF and IL5 in both mouse models and humans. Our data indicate that special consideration of the obese patient population is critical for effective management of cancer progression.

The aim of the study was to evaluate efficacy of nutrition and physical activity interventions in the clinical management of paediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The prevalence of paediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease continues to rise alongside childhood obesity. Weight loss through lifestyle modification is currently first-line treatment, although supplementation of specific dietary components may be beneficial.

The global increase of obesity parallels the obesity-related glomerulopathy (ORG) epidemic. Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists were well recognized to attenuate renal injury independent of glucose control in diabetic nephropathy. There are limited studies focusing on their effects on ORG. We explored the effects of incretin-based therapies on early ORG and the inflammatory responses involved mainly concentrated on mast cell (MC) and macrophage (M) infiltration and local pro-inflammatory factors.

To investigate the association between triglyceride-glucose(TyG) index and the risk of hypertension.

Research examining the implementation and effectiveness of integrated behavioral health (BH) care in family medicine/primary care is growing. However, research identifying ways to consistently use integrated BH in busy family medicine/primary care settings with underserved populations is limited. This study describes 1 family medicine clinic's transformation into a fully integrated BH care clinic through the development of an Integrated Care Clinic (ICC) and enhanced clinical pathways to promote regular use of behavioral health clinicians (BHCs).

Hepato-visceral fat excess is a feature of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Risk factors for such excess include low prenatal weight gain and high postnatal weight gain. This study examined whether adolescent PCOS was preceded by a relatively low birth weight and/or a relatively high BMI at diagnosis.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) can lead to myocardial fibrosis, diastolic dysfunction, and eventual heart failure. This study evaluated alterations in myocardial microstructure in people with MetS by using a novel algorithm to characterize ultrasonic signal intensity variation.

Thyroid function and nutritional indicators were measured in obese, steatitis-affected Mozambique tilapia Oreochromis mossambicus from Loskop Reservoir (LR), South Africa. Plasma thyroid hormones (especially T3) and thyroid follicle histomorphology revealed high levels of activity in every aspect of the thyroid cascade measured in fish from LR compared to a reference population of steatitis-free fish. Concurrent measurements of nutritional state including plasma lipids, liver lipid content and hepatocyte size showed that fish from LR had significant energy stores indicative of abundant nutritional intake. There were distinct sex and seasonal differences, with the highest plasma lipids and T3 levels observed in steatitis-affected females during spring and summer. Positive correlations were observed between plasma lipids (especially cholesterol) and T3 concentrations in fish from both populations, indicating a link between lipid metabolism and thyroid function. There was no direct evidence of thyroid disruption, but this cannot be ruled out until further research determines the factors that underlie the homeostatic shift leading to elevated plasma and liver lipids and T3 levels in steatitis-affected tilapia.

The impact of body mass index on complications and survival in patients undergoing esophagectomy has been extensively studied with conflicting results. In this study, we assess the impact of body mass index on complications and survival following surgery for esophageal and gastro-esophageal-junction cancer in a Danish population.

We examined the intestinal and systemic responses to incorporating a type 2 resistant starch (RS) into a high fat diet fed to obese mice.

This study examined the association between the body mass index (BMI) in late adolescence and the risk of colon and rectal cancer.

Regulatory agencies have concluded that sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors lead to ketoacidosis, but published literature on this point remains controversial.

The 3 "movement behaviours" of sleep, screen time, and physical activity are associated with a wide range of health outcomes in children. This study examined whether these behaviours cluster together within individuals in Australian primary school children.

With high rates of obesity, low levels of physical activity (PA), and lack of adherence to physical activity guidelines (PAGs) among African American (AA) breast cancer survivors (BCSs), culturally appropriate interventions that address barriers to participation in PA are needed.

Obesity is a multifactorial condition influenced by both genetics and lifestyle. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the association between a validated genetic profile risk score for obesity (GPRS-obesity) and body mass index (BMI) or waist circumference (WC) was modified by macronutrient intake in a large general population study.

In obesity, improved muscle insulin sensitivity following exercise training has been linked to the lowering of diacylglycerol (DAG) and ceramide concentrations. Little is known, however, about how improved insulin action with exercise training in obese individuals relates to lipid droplet (LD) adaptations in skeletal muscle. In this study we investigated the hypothesis that short-term sprint interval training (SIT) and moderate intensity continuous training (MICT) in obese individuals would increase perilipin (PLIN) expression, increase the proportion of LDs in contact with mitochondria and reduce muscle concentrations of DAGs and ceramides.

Humans carrying the genetic risk variant C at the circadian CLOCK (Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput) 3111T/C have been shown to have more difficulties to achieve desired weight loss than TT carriers. We tested the hypothesis that the daily rhythm of autonomic nervous function differs in CLOCK 3111C carriers, leading to reduced effectiveness in weight control.

A major risk factor of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a positive family history of diabetes. First degree relatives (FDR) of patients with T2DM are more insulin resistant and are reported to have larger abdominal subcutaneous adipocytes than adults without a family history. Our objectives were to assess whether a family history of T2DM is associated with larger abdominal adipocytes independent of age, sex, and abdominal subcutaneous fat and to assess whether FDR of T2DM is also independently related to femoral adipocyte size, as well as visceral fat and fasting plasma triglyceride (TG) concentrations.

Resistance and reactance collected by bioelectrical impedance (BIA) can be used in equations to estimate percent body fat at relatively low cost and subject burden. To our knowledge no such equations have been developed in a nationally representative sample.

Replication initiator 1 (Repin1) gene encodes for a zinc-finger protein and has been implicated in the regulation of adipocyte cell size and glucose transport in vitro. Here, we investigate the consequences of reduced adipose tissue (AT) Repin1 expression in vivo.

Individual risk factors for obesity are well-known, but environmental characteristics that influence individual risk, especially in rural communities, are not confirmed. Rural communities face unique challenges to implementing environmental strategies, such as walkability, aimed at supporting weight healthy lifestyles. Cooperative Extension, a community-embedded weight health partner, convened and engaged community members in self-exploration of local resources and readiness to change environmental characteristics perceived to promote unhealthy eating and inactivity. This approach leveraged Extension's mission, which includes connecting rural communities with land-grant university resources.

Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for obesity with or without type 2 diabetes mellitus and its complications. With the growing incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus, the number of hospitals performing bariatric surgery and surgical cases increase substantially. The problems in operation standardization, quality control of operation and postoperative management of the patients cause the failure in weight loss, hypoglycemia and severe complications, and revisional surgery is often required to correct the condition. We report a case of laparoscopic revisional surgery following nonstandard gastric bypass, and the reasons for failure of weight loss in first bariatric surgery, the current situation of bariatric surgery and revisional metabolic surgery were analyzed. This case demonstrates the clinical necessity of revisonal bariatric surgery and the importance of selection of the surgical approaches and indications.

The prevalence of obesity has increased across the globe in particular in Africa. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of obesity in Sudan.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes are linked with chronic, low-grade inflammation in visceral adipose tissue (VAT). A unique population of VAT-resident CD4(+)Foxp3(+) Tregs plays a crucial role in regulating VAT inflammation and metabolic homeostasis. VAT-resident Tregs display a highly restricted TCR repertoire, suggesting they recognize certain autoantigen(s) in VAT. A dramatic reduction of VAT-resident Tregs has been shown to closely correlate with obesity-related VAT chronic inflammation and metabolic disorders. Oral tolerance strategy may modulate inflammatory response to autoantigens by several mechanisms including induction of autoantigen-specific Tregs. Here, we explored the effects and cellular mechanism of oral administration of VAT pooled antigens on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic disorders in mice. Indeed, we found that oral treatment of VAT mixture antigens effectively inhibited gain in body weight and fat mass, ameliorated serum lipid parameters, and improved insulin sensitivity in HFD mice. This strategy was shown to significantly restore HFD-induced decrease of VAT-resident Tregs, accompanied by a hampered M2-type to M1-type macrophages phenotypic switch as well as decreased CD8(+) T cells infiltration in VAT. Thus, oral administration of VAT antigens may be a novel and safe strategy against obesity and its related metabolic disorders.

Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a neurological sensorimotor disorder characterized by uncomfortable sensations in the legs. RLS often occurs as a comorbid condition. Besides an increased risk of iron deficiency, blood donors are considered to be generally healthy. Blood donors are therefore an ideal population for studying factors associated with RLS occurrence, herein the role of iron. It is suggested that RLS is linked to sex, age, low socioeconomic status, unhealthy lifestyle, and iron deficiency. The objective of this study is therefore to estimate the RLS prevalence and identify associated biological, sociodemographic, economic, and lifestyle factors in a population of blood donors.

Through a causal framework, we aim to assess the association between weight change and daytime sleepiness, and the role of obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) in this relationship.

Childhood obesity is a serious public health problem associated with the development of several chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. The elevated prevalence of obesity is mostly due to inadequate diet and lifestyle, but it is also influenced by genetic factors.

This review is focused on the pathophysiology and therapeutic potential of purinergic signalling. A wide range of diseases are considered, including those of the central nervous system, skin, kidney, musculoskeletal, liver gut, lower urinary tract, cardiovascular, airways and reproductive systems, the special senses, infection, diabetes and obesity. Several purinergic drugs are already on the market, including P2Y12 receptor antagonists for stroke and thrombosis, P2Y2 receptor agonists for dry eye, and A1 receptor agonists for supraventricular tachycardia. Clinical trials are underway for the use of P2X3 receptor antagonists for the treatment of chronic cough, visceral pain and hypertension, and many more compounds are being explored for the treatment of other diseases. Most experiments are 'proof of concept' studies on animal or cellular models, which hopefully will lead to further clinical trials. The review summarises the topic, mostly referring to recent review articles.

Cannabis has been used for medicinal purpose for thousands of years; however the positive and negative effects of cannabis use in Parkinson's disease (PD) and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) are mostly unknown. Our aim was to assess cannabis use in PD and MS and compare results of self-reported assessments of neurological disability between current cannabis users and non-users.

A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Gegen Qinlian decoction (GQD) for normalizing hyperglycemia in T2DM patients by pooling all available RCTs.

We aimed to compare in-hospital postoperative complications (IHPC) and in-hospital mortality between patients with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) undergoing primary total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA).

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and pyroptosis cause irreversible vascular changes in the eyes leading to central vision loss in patients. It is the most common eye disease affecting millions of people aged 50years or older, and is slowly becoming a major health problem worldwide. The disease mainly affects macula lutea, an oval-shaped pigmented area surrounding fovea near the center of retina, a region responsible for visual acuity. It is fairly a complex disease as genetics of patients, environmental triggers as well as risk factors such as age, family history of CVDs, diabetes, gender, obesity, race, hyperopia, iris color, smoking, diabetes, exposure to sun light and pyroptosis have all been clubbed together as probable causes of macular degeneration. Among genes that are known to play a role include variant polymorphisms in the complement cascade components such as CFH, C2, C3, and CFB as potential genetic risk factors. So far, AMD disease hypothesized theories have not resulted into the anticipated impact towards the development of effective or preventive therapies in order to help alleviate patients' suffering because, as of today, it is still unclear what actually initiates or leads to this dreaded eye condition. Based upon our extensive work on the metabolism of homocysteine (Hcy) in various disease conditions we, therefore, are proposing a novel hypothesis for AMD pathogenesis as we strongly believe that Hcy and events such as pyroptosis make a greater contribution to the overall etiology of AMD disease in a target population of susceptible hosts by inciting and accelerating the inherent inflammatory changes in the retina of these patients (Fig. 2). In this context, we further state that Hcy and pyroptosis should be considered as legitimate and valuable markers of retinal dysfunction as they not only aid and abet in the development but also in the progression of AMD in older people as discussed in this paper. This discussion should open up new avenues in tackling inflammatory and pyroptosis centered pathways that are up-regulated or solely promoted by Hcy interaction within the ocular compartment of AMD susceptible hosts.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine system disorder among women of reproductive age. In several cases, PCOS women show infertility or subfertility and other metabolic alteration, such as insulin resistance (InsR), dyslipidaemia, hyperinsulinemia and obesity. Despite the aetiology of the syndrome is still far from be elucidated, it could be considered the result of concurrent endocrine modifications, lifestyle factors and genetic background. In particular, accumulating evidence suggests that InsR and compensatory hyperinsulinemia play a pivotal pathogenic role in the hyperandrogenism of many PCOS phenotypes, which in turn have a clear detrimental effect on chronic anovulation. Different forms of fasting, such as intermittent fasting (IF, including alternate day fasting, or twice weekly fasting, for example) and periodic fasting (PF, lasting several days or longer every 2 or more weeks) are currently being tested in several in vitro and in vivo studies. Changes in the circulating levels of Insulin Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1), Insulin-like Growth Factor-Binding Protein 1 (IGFBP1), glucose and insulin are typical effects of fasting which may play a key role on aging and metabolic homeostasis. Considering the paramount importance of InsR and compensatory hyperinsulinemia, different fasting regimens can reduce IGF-1, IGFBP1, glucose and insulin levels and consequently have beneficial effects on ovarian function, androgen excess and infertility in PCOS women.

Hannen et al. report that cutaneous glucocorticoidogenesis and expression of glucocorticoid receptors are inhibited in psoriatic skin. These findings substantiate the previous concept that deficient feedback of local proopiomelanocortin and glucocorticoids on cutaneous immunity contributes to inflammatory and autoimmune dermatoses. Restoration of efficient endogenous glucocorticoid signaling represents a realistic goal in treating psoriasis.

To evaluate whether the lifestyle intervention MetSLIM targeting individuals of low socio-economic status of Turkish, Moroccan and Dutch origin was successful in improving waist circumference and other cardiometabolic risk factors, lifestyle behaviour and quality of life.

Differential gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) is poorly characterized. Markers of these processes may provide a deeper understanding of the mechanisms that underlie these events. The main goal of this study was to identify changes in PBMC gene expression in women with obesity before and 6 months after RYGB-induced weight loss.

MDMA has been shown to induce feelings of sociability, a positive emotional bias and enhanced empathy. While previous research has used only visual emotional stimuli, communication entails more than that single dimension and it is known that auditory information is also crucial in this process. In addition, it is, however, unclear what the neurobiological mechanism underlying these MDMA effects on social behaviour is. Previously, studies have shown that MDMA-induced emotional excitability and positive mood are linked to the action on the serotonin (5-HT) 2A receptor.

Obesity is a multifactorial disease, associated with metabolic disorders, chronic low-grade inflammation, and impaired immunity. This study aimed to evaluate the childhood obesity-associated effects on neutrophil activation and cytokine production.

Beta cell replacement is a potential cure for type 1 diabetes. In humans, islet transplants are currently infused into the liver via the portal vein, although this site has disadvantages. Here, we investigated alternative transplantation sites for human and murine islets in recipient mice, comparing the portal vein with quadriceps muscle and kidney, liver and spleen capsules.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is highly prevalent and can lead to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and end-stage liver disease. NAFLD comprises the spectrum from simple steatosis (nonalcoholic fatty liver, NAFL), to steatosis with inflammation (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH). Current primary therapy recommended for NAFLD is weight loss induced by lifestyle modification. The difficulty in achieving this has led to robust pharmacological therapy development. While new drugs may show efficacy in selected phase II/III clinical trial populations, their real-world effectiveness is unknown. TARGET-NASH is a 5-year, longitudinal, observational study of patients with NAFLD designed to evaluate the effectiveness of clinical practice interventions and provide practical information unobtainable in registration trials. A biological specimen repository is included in TARGET-NASH for translational studies of genomics and biomarkers of disease activity. Patients are enrolling at adult and pediatric sites representing multiple specialties. All patients being managed for NAFLD are eligible, whereas those in other NASH registries or clinical trials will be excluded. Enrolled patients range in age from 6 and up and will have 3years of clinical data reviewed. Patient comorbidities, concomitant medications, disease progression and off-label interventions will be assessed, and adverse outcomes, monitored. Confirming the use, safety and effectiveness of NAFLD interventions in children and adults and establishing pragmatic methods of assessing disease progression under real-world conditions are key study outcomes. Ultimately, TARGET-NASH will establish a large, diverse registry of NAFLD patients at academic and community practices to be leveraged to improve health and reduce development of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Various signaling pathways have been identified in the heart as important players during development, physiological adaptation or pathological processes. This includes the MAPK families, particularly p38MAPK, which is involved in several key cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, inflammation, metabolism and survival. Disrupted p38MAPK signaling has been associated with several diseases, including cardiovascular diseases (CVD) as well as diabetes and its related complications. Despite efforts to translate this knowledge into therapeutic avenues, p38 inhibitors have failed in clinical trials due to adverse effects. Inhibition of MK2, a downstream target of p38, appears to be a promising alternative strategy. Targeting MK2 activity may avoid the adverse effects linked to p38 inhibition, while maintaining its beneficial effects. MK2 was first considered as a therapeutic target in inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid polyarthritis. A growing body of evidence now supports a key role of MK2 signaling in the pathogenesis of CVD, particularly ischemia/reperfusion injury, hypertrophy, and hypertension and that its inhibition or inactivation is associated with improved heart and vascular functions. More recently, MK2 was shown to be a potential player in diabetes and related complications, particularly in liver and heart, and perturbations in calcium handling and lipid metabolism. In this review, we will discuss recent advances in our knowledge of the role of MK2 in p38MAPK-mediated signaling and the benefits of its loss of function in CVD and diabetes, with an emphasis on the roles of MK2 in calcium handling and lipid metabolism. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cardiac Adaptations to Obesity, Diabetes and Insulin Resistance: Novel Targets and Therapies, edited by Dr. Jan Glatz, Professor Jason Dyck and Dr. Christine Des Rosiers.

We evaluated the potential clinical relevance of malondialdehyde (MDA) and autoantibodies to copper oxidized low-density lipoprotein (CuOx-LDL) in type 2 diabetes occurrence.

Difficult-to-control asthma is associated with significant medical and financial burden. Comorbidities are known to contribute to uncontrolled asthma. Better insight into the prevalence, nature, and risk factors of comorbidities may optimize treatment strategies in patients with difficult-to-control asthma and decrease disease burden.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia and across the developed nations, it contributes to increasing hospitalizations and healthcare burden. Several comorbidities and risk factors including hypertension, heart failure, obstructive sleep apnoea and obesity are known to play an important role in the initiation and perpetuation of AF and atrial stretch or dilatation may play a central mechanistic role. The impact of atrial stretch in the development of AF can vary dependent on the underlying disease. This review focuses on understanding the substrate for AF in conditions of acute and chronic stretch and in the presence of common co-morbidities or risk factors through the review of findings in both animal and human studies. Additionally, the reversibility of atrial remodeling following stretch release will also be discussed. Identification of clinical conditions associated with increased atrial stretch as well as the treatment or prevention of these conditions may help to prevent AF progression and improve sinus rhythm maintenance.

Osteoarthritis of the knee is generally evaluated by plain X-rays, which are incapable of detecting small cartilage damage. There are some patients who have small cartilage defects on MRI with no abnormal findings on plain X-rays. In this study, the prevalence and regional characteristics of cartilage defects detected by MRI were studied in cases with normal X-ray findings (Kellgren-Lawrence grade 0 and 1). Relationships between the cartilage defects and OA risk factors such as obesity and leg alignment were also investigated.

This study aims to evaluate patient reported and functional outcomes following hybrid versus cemented total knee arthroplasty (TKA) in patients, stratified by body mass index (BMI).

We aimed at investigating whether the acute abrogation of leptin after bariatric surgery is able to reduce neutrophil activation and potentially affect type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) remission.

To assess the possible association between a validated Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII) and specific dietary components with suitable non-invasive markers of liver status in overweight and obese subjects within the PREDIMED study.

The burden of stroke is increasing in low to middle income countries. Identifying risk patterns for ischemic stroke (IS) can help develop individualized preventive measures for at risk populations.

Environmental enteropathy is a chronic condition of the small intestine associated with increased intestinal permeability, mucosal inflammation, malabsorption, and systemic inflammation. It is commonly accompanied by enteric infections and is misleadingly considered a subclinical disease. Potential effects of enteric infections and enteropathy on vaccine responses, child growth, cognitive development, and even later life obesity, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome are increasingly being recognized. Herein, we review the evolving challenges to defining environmental enteropathy and enteric infections, current evidence for the magnitude and determinants of its burden, new assessment tools, and relevant interventions.

Improving maternal and child nutrition is central to global development goals and reducing the noncommunicable disease burden. Although the process of becoming malnourished starts in utero, the consequences of poor nutrition extend across the life cycle and into future generations. The global nutrition targets for 2025 include reducing infant and young child growth faltering, halting the increase of overweight children, improving breastfeeding practices, and reducing maternal anemia. In this review, we address nutritional assessment, discuss nonnutritive factors that affect growth, and endorse the evidence-based interventions that should be scaled up to improve maternal and child nutrition.

Africa's economy is growing faster than any other continent and it has been estimated that the middle class in Africa now exceeds 350 million people. This has meant a parallel increase in the importation of consumer goods and in the implementation of communication and information technologies (ICT), but also in the generation of large quantities of e-waste. However, inadequate infrastructure development remains a major constraint to the continent's economic growth and these highly toxic residues are not always adequately managed. Few studies have been conducted to date assessing the possible association between socioeconomic development factors, including e-waste generation, and blood levels of inorganic elements in African population. To disclose the role of geographical, anthropogenic, and socioeconomic development determinants on the blood levels of Ag, Al, As, Be, Cd, Co, Cr, Hg, Ni, Pb, Sb, and V -all of them frequently found in e-waste-, an immigrant population-based study was made including a total of 245 subjects from 16 countries recently arrived to the Canary Islands (Spain). Women presented higher levels of blood elements than men, and Northern Africans (Moroccans) were the most contaminated. People from low-income countries exhibited significantly lower blood levels of inorganic elements than those from middle-income countries. We found a significant association between the use of motor vehicles and the implementation of information and communication technologies (ICT) and the level of contamination. Immigrants from the countries with a high volume of imports of second-hand electronic equipment, telephone and internet use had higher levels of inorganic elements. In general terms, the higher level of economic development the higher the blood levels of inorganic pollutants, suggesting that the economic development of Africa, in parallel to e-waste generation and the existence of informal recycling sites, have directly affected the level of contamination of the population of the continent.

To examine prevalence of weight misperception (incongruence between one's perceived weight status and one's actual weight status) and disordered weight control behaviors (DWCBs; unhealthy behaviors aiming to control or modify weight), associations between weight misperception and DWCBs, and temporal trends in prevalence and associations among adolescents with overweight and obesity from 1999 to 2013.

There is inconsistent evidence regarding the relationship between higher intake of nuts, being an energy-dense food, and weight gain. We investigated the relationship between nut intake and changes in weight over 5 years.

Not all people with type 2 diabetes who undergo bariatric surgery achieve diabetes remission. Thus it is critical to develop methods for predicting outcomes that are applicable for clinical practice. The DiaRem score is relevant for predicting diabetes remission post-Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), but it is not accurate for all individuals across the entire spectrum of scores. We aimed to develop an improved scoring system for predicting diabetes remission following RYGB (the Advanced-DiaRem [Ad-DiaRem]).

Over a relatively short period, obesity and type 2 diabetes have come to represent a large medical and economic burden to global societies. The epidemic rise in the prevalence of obesity has metabolic consequences and is paralleled by an increased occurrence of other diseases, such as diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular complications. Together, obesity and type 2 diabetes constitute one of the more preventable causes of premature death and the identification of novel, safe and effective anti-obesity drugs is of utmost importance. Pharmacological attempts to treat obesity have had limited success, with notable adverse effects, rendering bariatric surgery as the only current therapy for substantially improving body weight. Novel unimolecular, multifunctional peptides have emerged as one of the most promising medicinal approaches to enhance metabolic efficacy and restore normal body weight. In this review, we will mainly focus on the discovery and translational relevance of dual agonists that pharmacologically function at the receptors for glucagon and glucagon-like peptide-1. Such peptides have advanced to clinical evaluation and inspired the pursuit of multiple related approaches to achieving polypharmacy within single molecules.

The relationship between dietary and lifestyle risk factors and long-term mortality from colorectal cancer is poorly understood. Several factors, such as obesity, intakes of red meat, and use of aspirin, have been reported to be associated with risk of colorectal cancer mortality, though these findings have not been replicated in all studies to date.

To investigate the preventative activity of benzyl isothiocyante and S-carvone against high-fat diet-induced obesity and metabolic complications.

The role of dietary fibre and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) in obesity development is controversially discussed. Here, we investigated how various types of dietary fibre and different SCFA ratios affect metabolic syndrome-related disorders. Male mice (B6) were fed high-fat diets supplemented with dietary fibres (either cellulose, inulin or guar gum) or different Ac:Pr ratios (high acetate (HAc) or propionate (HPr)) for 30 weeks. Body-fat gain and insulin resistance were greatly reduced by inulin, but not by guar gum, and completely prevented by SCFA supplementation. Only inulin and HAc increased body temperature, possibly by the induction of beige/browning markers in WAT. In addition, inulin and SCFA lowered hepatic triglycerides and improved insulin sensitivity. Both, inulin and HAc reduced hepatic fatty acid uptake, while only inulin enhanced mitochondrial capacity and only HAc suppressed lipogenesis in liver. Interestingly, HPr was accompanied by the induction of Nrg4 in BAT. Fermentable fibre supplementation increased the abundance of bifidobacteria; B. animalis was particularly stimulated by inulin and B. pseudolongum by guar gum. We conclude that in contrast to guar gum, inulin and SCFA prevent the onset of diet-induced weight gain and hepatic steatosis by different mechanisms on liver and adipose tissue metabolism.

Background -The inability of the adult mammalian heart to regenerate following injury represents a major barrier in cardiovascular medicine. In contrast, the neonatal mammalian heart retains a transient capacity for regeneration, which is lost shortly after birth. Defining the molecular mechanisms that govern regenerative capacity in the neonatal period remains a central goal in cardiac biology. Here, we assemble a transcriptomic framework of multiple cardiac cell populations during postnatal development and following injury, which enables comparative analyses of the regenerative (neonatal) versus non-regenerative (adult) state for the first time. Methods -Cardiomyocytes, fibroblasts, leukocytes and endothelial cells from infarcted and non-infarcted neonatal (P1) and adult (P56) mouse hearts were isolated by enzymatic dissociation and FACS at day 3 following surgery. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on these cell populations to generate the transcriptome of the major cardiac cell populations during cardiac development, repair and regeneration. To complement our transcriptomic data, we also surveyed the epigenetic landscape of cardiomyocytes during postnatal maturation by performing deep sequencing of accessible chromatin regions using the Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin (ATAC-seq) from purified mouse cardiomyocyte nuclei (P1, P14 and P56). Results -Profiling of cardiomyocyte and non-myocyte transcriptional programs uncovered several injury-responsive genes across regenerative and non-regenerative time points. However, the majority of transcriptional changes in all cardiac cell types resulted from developmental maturation from neonatal stages to adulthood rather than activation of a distinct regeneration-specific gene program. Furthermore, adult leukocytes and fibroblasts were characterized by the expression of a proliferative gene expression network following infarction, which mirrored the neonatal state. In contrast, cardiomyocytes failed to re-activate the neonatal proliferative network following infarction, which was associated with loss of chromatin accessibility around cell cycle genes during postnatal maturation. Conclusions -This work provides a comprehensive framework and transcriptional resource of multiple cardiac cell populations during cardiac development, repair and regeneration. Our findings define a regulatory program underpinning the neonatal regenerative state and identify alterations in the chromatin landscape that could limit re-induction of the regenerative program in adult cardiomyocytes.

Obesity and maternal folate deficiency are associated with increased risk for neural tube defects (NTDs). Limited knowledge exists on the impact of folate status or obesity on DNA methylation of genes related to NTD risk and folate metabolism.

In pediatric extremity fractures treated nonsurgically, maintaining reduction can be difficult in obese children owing to the larger soft tissue envelope. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between obesity and failure of nonsurgical management of pediatric both-bone forearm fractures.

Obesity plays a dominant role in the etiology of atrial fibrillation (AF), and the maintenance of a normal body mass index (BMI) seems to prevent and even reduce the incidence of the arrhythmia's recurrence. We selected 270 patients (pts) to assess whether this therapeutic effect was statistically significant even in Mediterranean patients.

Closing the remaining opening in a linear stapled anastomosis, for example in laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB), can be challenging.

Sestrins (Sesns) family, which including three members Sesn1, Sesn2 and Sesn3, is known as stress-inducible proteins and participate in multiple diseases via regulating oxidative stress, inflammatory response and cell apoptosis. The present study aimed to investigate the plasma levels and the clinical significance of Sesns in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

Brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation has been identified as a possible target to treat obesity and to protect against metabolic diseases by increasing energy consumption. We explored whether albiflorin (AF), a natural compound, could contribute to lowering the high risk of obesity with BAT and primary brown preadipocytes in vivo and in vitro.

Adipocyte dysfunction, obesity and associated metabolic disorders are of prime healthcare concern worldwide. Among available medications, natural products and inspired molecules hold 40% space in clinically prescribed medicines. In queue, this study overcomes the drawback of curcumin's low bioavailability with potent anti-adipogenic and anti-dyslipidemic activity.

Irisin, a novel exercise-induced myokine, has been suggested to regulate energy metabolism.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) represents a global burden with a prevalence that continues increasing progressively. CVD comprises a group of disorders of the heart and blood vessels including coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and peripheral arterial disease. This group of disorders is associated with an inflammatory process which can participate in the pathophysiology of these diseases. Inflammation resolution is an active process involving the participation of pro-resolving mediators such as lipoxins, resolvins, protectins and maresins. Pro-resolving mediators are bioactive molecules generated from omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs); among these eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; C20:5n3) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; C22:6n3) are the precursors of resolvins. Pro-resolving mediators orchestrate the correct resolution of inflammation and also stimulate tissue regeneration. Their deregulation can lead to chronic inflammation involving CVD. The discovery of these novel lipid mediators opens a new range of possibilities for the design of anti-inflammatory agents with therapeutic potential for a wide variety of diseases. The present work summarizes the available data about the general characteristics, structure and biosynthesis of resolvins and their relation as protective compounds in CVD.

Fatigue increases the likelihood of developing work-related musculoskeletal disorders and injury. Due to the physiological and neuromuscular changes that accompany obesity, it may alter the fatigue development mechanism and exacerbate injury risk. The upper extremities have the highest incidence rates for work-related musculoskeletal disorders. Therefore, the goals of this study were to investigate the effect of obesity on central vs. peripheral fatigue as well as on the physical signs of fatigue on the middle deltoid muscle.

Despite emerging research about the role of the family and home environment on early childhood obesity, little is known on how weight-related behaviors, parent practices and the home environment influence overweight/obesity in older children and adolescents.

It is not clear whether being overweight or obese influences postoperative complications in myasthenia gravis (MG) patients. We retrospectively investigated an association between body mass index (BMI) and postoperative complications in MG.

The transplant community increasingly accepts extended criteria live kidney donors, however, great (geographical) differences are present in policies regarding the acceptance of these donors, and guidelines do not offer clarity. The aim of this survey was to reveal these differences and to get an insight in both centre policies as well as personal beliefs of transplant professionals.

Gestational diabetes is a risk factor for perinatal complications; include shoulder dystocia, birth injuries such as bone fractures and nerve palsies. It is associated with later development of type 2 diabetes, the risk of macrosomia and other long-term health effects of infants born to diabetic mothers. The study assesses placental peptides and maternal factors as potential predictors of gestational diabetes among pregnant women.

The recent obesity epidemic in children also showed an increase in the prevalence of hypertension. As blood pressure (BP) is associated with (long-chain) polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC PUFA), genetic variation in desaturase enzymes being involved in the synthesis of LC PUFA may be associated with BP. This study aimed to investigate the direct effects (independent of mediating variables) and indirect effects (mediated through intermediate variables) of a common variant in the FADS1 gene, rs174546, known to affect delta-5 desaturase (D5D) activity on PUFA level, body mass index (BMI) and BP.

The intragastric balloon (IGB) is an endoscopic device for the treatment of obesity. Best results are observed in patients who follow a dietary program but few studies have assessed the results of this treatment in patients with different degrees of obesity.

Iraqi-born immigrants residing in Sweden are at high risk for type 2 diabetes, obesity and hyperlipidemia compared with native Swedes. Paradoxically, hypertension is less prevalent in this immigrant population. The aim of this study was to investigate differences in renal function and further if differences in blood pressure (BP) levels were associated with differences across ethnicities in renal function as a possible explanation to the paradox.

Studies have shown that famine exposure during early life may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension, and diabetes during adulthood. We aimed to assess whether exposure to the Chinese famine (1959-1961) modifies the association between hypertension and CVD.

Adipose tissue has been historically classified into anabolic white adipose tissue (WAT) and catabolic brown adipose tissue (BAT). Recent studies have revealed the plasticity of WAT, where white adipocytes can be induced into 'brown-like' heat-producing adipocytes (BRITE or beige adipocytes). Recruiting and activating BRITE adipocytes in WAT (so-called 'browning') is believed to provide new avenues for the treatment of obesity-related diseases. A number of hormonal factors have been found to regulate BRITE adipose development and activity through autocrine, paracrine and systemic mechanisms. In this mini-review we will discuss the impact of these factors on the browning process, especially those hormonal factors identified with direct effects on white adipocytes.

Few evaluations of the Veterans Health Administration Motivating Overweight/Obese Veterans Everywhere (MOVE!) weight management program have assessed 6-month weight change or factors associated with weight change by gender.

Dyslipidemia is caused by disturbances in lipid metabolism that lead to chronic elevations of serum lipids, especially low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol and triglycerides, increasing the risk of metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, atherogenic processes, and cardiovascular diseases. The oil from the fruits of Euterpe oleracea (OFEO) is rich in unsaturated fatty acids with potential for treating alterations in lipid metabolism. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effect of OFEO on hyperlipidemia induced by Cocos nucifera L. saturated fat (GSC) in Wistar rats. Chromatographic profile showed that unsaturated fatty acids account for 66.08% in OFEO, predominately oleic acid (54.30%), and saturated fatty acids (palmitic acid 31.6%) account for 33.92%. GSC-induced dyslipidemia resulted in an increase in total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, and liver and abdominal fat, as well as atherogenic processes in the thoracic aorta. OFEO treatment did not reduce hypertriglyceridemia, but did reduce total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, thus contributing to the antiatherogenic action of OFEO. OFEO treatment inhibited the formation of atheromatous plaques in the vascular endothelium of the treated rats, as well as those who were treated with simvastatin. The results obtained suggest that OFEO has an antiatherogenic effect in a rat model of dyslipidemia.

(i) To audit the nutritional composition, promotion and cost of products available from vending machines available to young adults; and (ii) to examine the relationship between product availability and sales.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of dietetic and educational interventions provided to clients with type 2 diabetes (with or without obesity) or obesity-only residing in supported residential facilities and characterised by mental impairment.

Protein-energy wasting (PEW) is prevalent in haemodialysis. Obesity is an independent risk factor of kidney insufficiency, but it is proposed to have beneficial roles in better outcomes in the final stage of disease. Better nutritional status and body reserves are among probable mechanisms, but direct examinations are limited. The present study aimed to investigate whether obese patients have preferable nutritional status compared to normal weight patients based on malnutrition inflammation score (MIS) and other PEW parameters in haemodialysis.

Impaired autonomic function could be the mechanism for the development of cardiometabolic diseases in obesity. Hence, simple anthropometric measures of overall and central obesity could be screening markers for autonomic imbalance. We analysed the relationship between heart rate variability (HRV) parameters and obesity indicators.

The aim of this study was to explore the methods, processes and strategies used by early childhood education and care (ECEC) services when determining the nutritional adequacy of food provided to children in their care.

Mediterranean diet has shown a protective role against cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer onset, microvascular damage and dementia in many trials. Our purpose is the assessment of a correlation between physical activity, Mediterranean diet, body mass index (BMI), depression and erection disorder (ED).

Although first-line antidepressants offer therapeutic benefit, about 35% of depressed patients are not adequately treated, creating a large unmet medical need. These medicines mostly enhance the synaptic levels of serotonin and/or norepinephrine. Evidence from preclinical and clinical studies implicate dopamine hypofunction in the pathophysiology of depression. Triple reuptake inhibitors (TRIs), which elevate dopamine in addition to serotonin and norepinephrine, may demonstrate greater efficacy, with the reversal of anhedonia and improved tolerability. Medicinal chemistry efforts have resulted in more than 10 clinical candidates, although clinical candidates have failed to demonstrate superior efficacy compared to placebo or existing antidepressants. Hence, the successful development of future TRIs for depression will demand strong translational evidence, an optimal dosing regimen, and better tolerability. TRIs also hold therapeutic potential for other indications, with four candidates under clinical development for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, binge eating disorder, cocaine addiction, obesity and type 2 diabetes. Clinical studies have indicated a lower abuse potential for TRIs than psychostimulants.

To investigate the current status of achieved blood pressure levels in association with the number of antihypertensive drug classes as of 2013, and to explore the clinical correlates with achievement of target blood pressure in a large-scale cohort of Japanese subjects with type 2 diabetes.

Infection occurs more commonly in diabetic compared to general population and is an under-recognised but important morbidity in patients with diabetes. We examined the impact of glycaemic control on hospitalisation for infection in a large prospective cohort of Chinese adults with type 2 diabetes.

Mitochondrial dysfunction is a potentially important player in the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). We investigated the changes of mRNA expression of genes encoding main enzymatic complexes of mitochondrial respiratory chain in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SCAT) and peripheral monocytes (PM) of 11 subjects with simple obesity (OB), 16 obese patients with T2DM and 17 healthy lean subjects (C) before and after very low-calorie diet (VLCD) using quantitative real time PCR. At baseline in SCAT, both T2DM and OB group had decreased mRNA expression of all investigated mitochondrial genes with the exception of 2 complex I (NDUFA12) and complex IV (COX4/1) enzymes in OB subjects. In contrast, in PM only the expression of complex I enzymes NDUFA12 and MT-ND5 was reduced in both T2DM and OB subjects along with decreased expression of citrate synthase (CS) in T2DM group. Additionally, T2DM subjects showed reduced activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase and complex IV in peripheral blood elements. VLCD further decreased mRNA expression of CS and complex I (NT-ND5) and II (SDHA) enzymes in SCAT and complex IV (COX4/1) and ATP synthase in PM of T2DM group, while increasing the activity of complex IV in their peripheral blood elements. We conclude that impaired mitochondrial biogenesis and decreased activity of respiratory chain enzymatic complexes was present in SCAT and PM of obese and diabetic patients. VLCD improved metabolic parameters and ameliorated mitochondrial oxidative function in peripheral blood elements of T2DM subjects but had only minor and inconsistent effect on mitochondrial gene mRNA expression in SCAT and PM.

Circadian clock plays an essential role in orchestrating daily physiology, and its disruption can evoke metabolic diseases such as obesity. L-Carnitine can reduce blood lipid levels, and ameliorate fatty liver through regulating lipid metabolism. However, whether L-Carnitine administration may affect the disturbance of lipid metabolism and circadian rhythm of mice induced by prolonged circadian disruption is still unknown. Herein, we investigated the effects of L-Carnitine on conditions of circadian clock and lipid metabolism through a chronic jet-lag mice model which was developed by reversing12 h light/12 h dark cycle every 4 days for a continuous 12 weeks. Results showed that L-Carnitine administration significantly decreased levels of serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and triglycerides (TG), which were remarkably elevated by chronic jet-lag. More importantly, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis indicated that L-carnitine supplementation would effectively counteract the negative alterations in gene expression which related to lipid metabolism (Srebp1, Acaca, Fasn, and Scd1), metabolic regulator (mTOR) and circadian rhythm (Bmal1, Per1, Cry1 and Dec1) in the liver of mice subjected to the chronic jet-lag. As a conclusion, L-Carnitine was partly effective in preventing the disruption of circadian clock and lipid metabolic disorders induced by the chronic jet-lag.

Independently, prebiotics and dietary protein have been shown to improve weight loss and/or alter appetite. Our objective was to determine the effect of combined prebiotic and whey protein on appetite, body composition and gut microbiota in adults with overweight/obesity.

Traffic-related air pollution causes fatty liver, inflammation and fibrosis in animal models, but there have been few studies in humans.

